RETURN OF THE APES by Terry Hayes first draft 1996DEEP SPACE.No atmosphere, no life, nothing. Just a web of lights- a billion stars hangin a velvet void. The only sound is the howl of the cosmic wind.The light of a distant sun strikes a rising planet. We see raggedcontinents and oceans wreathed in cloud. This is earth rise. Our worldspins slowly in space, a thing of beauty, of awesome majesty. In all thisnothingness - life.We push in on the planet - in to the Americas. The wind grows louder -A PUEBLO VILLAGE.A broken-down pick-up bumps into a God-forsaken villagea cluster of adobehouses, blinding flurries of dust and sand. The pick-up stops in front of acrumbling church. A man in his 60s gets out carrying a medical bag. This isthe DOCTOR. 'A WOMAN'S FACE.Screaming. She's very young - a South American Indian - lying on a bed in acorner of one of the houses. She is in the final throes of childbirth, asheet draped over her loins. The Doctor works between her legs, encouragingher in Spanish.The local PRIEST, not long out of the seminary, crouches at her sidecounting off the beads of a rosary. He looks like he is about to pass out.SUDDENLY THE WOMAN BITES DOWN HARD ON HER LIP. A THIN LINE OF BLOOD COURSESDOWN HER CHIN. THE BREATH EXPLODES FROM HER LUNGS AS SHE PUSHES REALLY HARD-DOCTORArriva!He lifts the child from her loins, but it makes no sound. We don't see thebaby - just the shock on the Doctor's face. The mother struggles up to seeher child.The Doctor grabs the sheet from her torso and covers the baby with it. Hethrusts the bundle into the Priest's hands.DOCTOR (CONT'D)(in Spanish)Dead - the child is dead. Now go!We hold on the mother's anguished face. Dissolve toA HELICOPTEROff the roof of a tall hospital building. As it rises up into the night wesee a red cross painted on its side. It's an air ambulance.The chopper turns away. The Manhattan skyline, every skyscraper a blaze oflights, opens up behind it. The chopper swoops over the Brooklyn bridge andinto the night.GROVE OF TREESWinter's coming on - every leaf is a different shade of amber and gold. Thehelicopter drops down between the branches and lands on an immaculatelytended lawn. Surrounding it are the gracious buildings of a greatuniversity. Harvard.Two paramedics clamber out of the back of the helicopter and load astainless steel casket onto a gurney. They wheel it fast towards one of thebuildings. As they go' through the front doors, we hold on a sign etchedinto the stoneDEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGYA PAIR OF MECHANICAL HANDSslide a long cylindrical "key" into the stainless steel casket. We pullback to reveal the casket lies in a sealed, uncontaminated room. A group ofpeople in lab coats -scientists and researchers - stare through the glasswalls.A young TECHNICIAN, working at a console, keyboards in a series ofcommands.Sswhish. The top of the steel casket swings open. Clouds of white gasstream out -whatever's inside has been nitrogen cooled.The gas clears. Lying inside is the body of a newborn child - except thatthe baby has the skin, the face and the features of a man of eighty. Thescientists and the researchers react - shocked.One of the mechanical hands glides towards the baby. In its fingers itholds a long steel scalpel. This is the highest-tech autopsy you've everseen. The scalpel drives down, about to open the chest cavity -BLOOD SPRAYSBut not from the baby's chest - it's in glass vials, exploding as white-hotflames consume them. A plastic-gloved lab assistant, silhouetted againstthe flames, is emptying hospital waste into a furnace. He slams the doorshut.He turns we see his face. He's in his 4Os, handsome in a rough-hewn way - astrong jaw and a muscular body. There's a cool intelligence in his eyes,but a two-day beard and a worn-out uniform make him look like a man who,between youth and middle-age, lost his way. And so he has. His name is WILLROBINSON.He takes a steel trolley, wheels it through a set of swing doors and out ofsight.CLOSED CIRCUIT TV SCREENfeatures the image of one of the scientists we recognize from the autopsy.She's in her 30s - attractive, long hair left loose on her shoulders, anair of authority about her. Her name is BILLIE RAE DIAMOND. She is aProfessor of Biology.We tilt down from the screen. It hangs from a wall in a deserted laboratory-overhead lights, rows and rows of wire animal cages. Moving down deathrow, feeding the lab animals, is Will Robinson.TWO SAD-EYED CHIMPS, CLEANING EACH OTHER IN THEIR TINY CAGE, TURN AND STAREAT HIM. SUDDENLY WILL STOPS - HE'S HEARD SOMETHING ON THE SCREEN THAT HASCAUGHT HIS ATTENTION. HE TURNS AND LOOKS -DIAMONDThe exact cause of death is still unknown. What is certain - we're dealingwith something we've never seen before. Every organ in the body isaffected...Superimposed over Diamond's face is a three dimensional, computer-generatedgraphic of the baby's body.Will forgets about what he's doing. He walks towards the screen. We push inon it. Screeds of new data appearVascular System ...............AtrophiedNeurological Function .........Senile dementiaWe hold on Will's eyes - he stares at it.AN AUDITORIUMBilly Rae Diamond stands on a podium continuing her briefing. About fortyscientists are sitting in front of her in a dimly-lit lecture hall.Diamond is even more impressive in person - she is tall and gracious butyou don't become a Professor at Harvard' at her age without having an ironwill and a sparkling intelligence. She speaks with great authority -DIAMOND (CONT'D)The baby in question, Michael James Flanagan -she points at thecomputer-generated graphic on a huge screenwas born at New York Hospital yesterday.MAP OF THE WORLD ILLUMINATES AN ADJOINING SCREEN -DIAMONDBut the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta has received similar reportsfrom a village in Bolivia, two cities in Australia, seven countries inEurope, a cluster of cases in Namibia and Mexico. Forty-two cases in all.As she speaks, pinpoints of light on the map identify the exact locations.They dot their way across the entire globe. Dr Diamond turns to face heraudience-DIAMOND (CONT'D)Like Michael Flanagan, they were full-term babies. Two hundred and seventyeight days since conception and yet, by all reasonable medical standards,they have completed their entire life cycle. They have gone from conceptionto death, not in three score years and ten, but in slightly less than ninemonths. Michael Flanagan died of old age.Silence as Diamond lets the scientists and researchers absorb it. On abalcony high above, another man is taking notes. He sits alone, almosthidden in shadow. It's Will Robinson.SHEETS OF ICE ON A SHUTTER DOORWill crouches in front of a row of self-storage units on the edge of town.It's night, the place is deserted. He slips a rusted key into a padlock.Snapl The key breaks.Will curses. He grabs a piece of timber and pulls a nail out of it. Heslides the nail into the padlock and manipulates the tumblers. The padlocksprings open.SPIDERSweave a web in a corner of the storage unit. A work light hangs from theceiling. Will is ripping open stacks of boxes from long ago. He putstogether a pile of yellowing files and old floppy disks.PULLS OUT A CASSETTE TAPE AND STARES AT IT, UNSURE WHAT'S ON IT. HE TAKES ACASSETTE PLAYER FROM OUT OF THE JUNK, SLIDES IT IN AND PRESSES "PLAY"A HUGEROUND OF APPLAUSE. AS IT DIES, WE HEAR A MAN'S VOICE. IT'S WILL, SPEAKINGFROM YEARS AGO -WILL(on tape)I would like to thank the faculty and staff for this great honor...We push in on Will's face as he listens to himself...WILL (CONT'D)have had the opportunity to work with three talented colleagues. I'mprivileged to also call them my friends -A shadow of pain crosses his face. He shuts off the tape and sitsmotionless.LAFAYETTE PARKNight. Homeless people in the park build cardboard shelters against acoming storm. Across the road, the first drops of rain splatter against theWhite House.A string of Government cars pass through the huge gates and pull up infront of the West Portico. From inside, we hear a man's voice -well-spoken, authoritativePRESIDENT (O.S.)There's no mistake - you're sure?JEFFERSON LIBRARYDiamond sits in the President's study - book-lined walls, a fire in thehearth. A group of men sit on the sofasthe Surgeon-General, the Chief ofStaff, the National Security Advisor, the Secretaw of Health. A table islittered with graphs end files.DIAMONDWe've got five thousand cases now, Mr President. That's in three weeks. Thenumber is doubling every hundred and sixty-eight hours.The President stands near a window, half in shadow, the firelight playingacross his face. He's in his 50's but the strain of office makes him lookolder.DIAMOND (CONT'D)That's a geometric progression, sir. In three months there'Il be over sevenmillion cases. After that we hit the wall -She pushes a thick, bound volume across the table.DIAMOND (CONT'D)According to this, there won't be a live birth on the planet.The President looks at her for a moment. Then he reaches down and picks upthe bound volume. It's hundreds of pages of numbers and projections.PRESIDENTThese are just computer projections -species don't disappear that fast.DIAMONDTell that to the dinosaurs, sir.He looks out the window at the winter storm sweeping down on them.NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISORWhat date - when exactly do we hit this wall?DIAMONDSix months and twenty-one days.Silence. The President keeps looking out the window.PRESIDENTCan't somebody tell me - what exactly are we dealing with. Is it a virus orwhat?DIAMONDWe don't know, sir.The President turns to the Chief of Staff.PRESIDENTWhatever they need, Bob - anything. Harry Truman put together the ManhattanProject - you understand?The Chief of Staff nods his head - yes.PRESIDENT (CONT'D)(softly)A world without children -it's inconceivable. And what about the rest of us- what do we do? Just sit and watch our species die? Will the last personto leave the planet turn out the lights.Silence again. Finally a young woman - the White House Press Secretary -speaks.PRESS SECRETARYWe're going to have to manage the public. Right now, the truth may beinoperative -PRESIDENTOf course we're going to have to manage itl We're going to have to manage awhole lot of things. But can't we take at least one moment to be human?He looks around the room. We hold on their somber faces.A CHEAP APARTMENTThrough the window - the neon sign of a gas station. This is Will's place,He lives alone - a bed in the corner, run-down furniture, dishes in thesink.The kitchen table has been turned into a desk - Will sits at an oldcomputer, surrounded by the yellowing stacks of files and floppy disks. Hestares at the screen - the notes and equations are blurred. He's been atthis so long, he can barely focus. He rubs his hand across his eyes.A small mewing sound. Will turns to an alcove in the corner - a cat lies ina basket, panting. Will goes to her.She's giving birth - the first of her new-born kittens lies next to her.Will strokes the mother's head, looking at the miracle of new life. He putshis fingers in a water bowl, about to moisten the mother's mouth.Then he stops. He looks again at the kitten - there's two of them now. Abeat as he just stares -WILL(softly)Jesus Christ... of course!A LUXURIOUS BATHROOMThrough frosted glass we see the silhouette of a woman taking a shower.Whoever she is, she's got a great figure. The sound of a doorbell. Theshower door opens -Diamond sticks her head out. She looks at a clock - it'salmost midnight.VIDEO ENTRY PHONEA video screen monitors the front door. On it we see Will - his hairtousled, an old overcoat buttoned to the neck, a battered briefcase underhis arm.Diamond - a towel around her shoulders, hair dripping - picks up the phone.DIAMONDWho is it?WILL (O.S.)Will Robinson.DIAMONDI think you have the wrong house.WILL (O.S.)I work at the department.He turns and looks straight into the camera. Instinctively, Diamond coversher breasts. She looks at him - recognition dawns.AN ELEGANT ROOMWill and Diamond sit in the living room of a gracious townhouse - woodenfloors and beautiful rugs. Diamond doesn't wear any make-up -just jeans andan oversized shirt. She looks even more beautiful. It does nothing to easeWill's nerves. He's got his briefcase open in front of him, speaking fromsheaves of notes and papers.DIAMOND(interrupting)Hold on - how do you know about the case load? The Government's trying tomanage this - they've withheld that information.WILLThe Internet, Doctor. It's a highway - you can ride it anywhere you want. Igot into 'the Center for Disease Control. I had a look at their raw data.DIAMONDJesus. Do you know what you're doing? This is the White House we're talkingabout.WILL(Heated))No, it's a disease and it doesn't come any worse than this - that's whatwe're talking about.HE LOOKS AWAY, CALMING HIMSELF. HE SHUFFLES HIS NOTES. HE SPEAKS AGAIN,QUIETLY -WILLI've listened at the lab - I think I know where you're looking. Bacteriasmostly, but there's a strong push into the retro-viruses. You're wrong,Doctor.DIAMONDReally - and I thought I was arrogant. But then, I'm just a professor.WILLNo virus or bacteria has ever discriminated on the grounds of sex.DIAMONDI can think of one.WILLSure, it can start in pockets but it never stays there. This thing does. Itonly affects women of child-bearing age. What - it's so smart it canrecognize motherhood? I don't think so. No, this is into the very heart ofwhat we are. This is genetic. This is part of the DNA.DIAMONDThank you. A hundred thousand genes make up human DNA - that really narrowsit down.WILLAs a matter of fact it does. There's only one part of the DNA that's passedexclusively through women. Thirty-seven genes, the oldest part of the humanorganism -DIAMOND(realizing)The mitochondrial DNA.WILLOver the years there's been speculation -not all of it crazy either - thatsomehow it triggers aging, He slides a sheaf of yellowing extracts fromscientific journals across the table. She doesn't pay them any attention -she's thinking.DIAMONDYou realize what you're saying, don't you? A bacteria - I think we'd get itfor sure. A virus -you'd have to say we've got a chance. But say you'reright. The mitochondrial DNA - that's so far out on the frontier, we canbarely see it.WILLLike I said - it doesn't get any worse than this.She keeps staring down at the documents and notes lying on the table. Abeat.WILL (CONT'D)Are you okay?DIAMONDSure.WILL LOOKS AT HER FOR A MOMENT -WILLShit. You're pregnant, aren't you?DIAMONDNine weeks.THEIR EYES MEET - SHE SHRUGS, TRYING TO PUT A BRAVE FACE ON IT. SHE GETS TOHER FEET -DIAMONDDo you want a drink - coffee, a sandwich or something?WILL(Recoiling)No...no, I'm fine thanks.Watches as he picks up his papers and puts them back in his batteredbriefcase.AN EMPTY STREETIt's late at night. Will clutches his briefcase under his arm, headinghome. A bitter wind blows out of the north. He looks a lonely and forlornfigure as he makes his way through the pools of light cast by thestreetlights.CONVOY OF N.A.S.A. TRUCKSRUMBLE THROUGH THE EARLY MORNING - THE CITY IS JUST WAKING. THE TRUCKS,DOZENS OF WHITE EIGHTEEN-WHEELERS, TURN THROUGH THE FRONT GATES OF HARVARD.THEY STOP IN FRONT OF THE GROVE OF TREES. WE CRANE UP FROM THEM TO A WINDOWIN THE BIOLOGY BUILDING -HAND HITS A TABLEIT'S DIAMOND - SHE'S ANGRY. BREAKFAST TRAYS CLUTTER THE TABLE -SHE'S IN THEMIDDLE OF A CONFERENCE WITH A GROUP OF SCIENTISTS. SHE GLARES AT ANARROGANT YOUNG NEUROLOGIST -DIAMONDIt's just an idea, Bob. All we're doing is taking it for a walk around theblock.A man in his 60s - distinguished, diplomatic - intercedes.DE MAUPASSANTThere was a lot of work done on it in the 7Os. I can't recall the detailsbut someone had the idea that mitochondriel DNA was like a genetic memory.If you could unlock it, you could physically travel back down it. Throughevolution - like a time machine.BOBWowl Those 70s, man. I'm really sorry I missed them.Everyone - Diamond included - laughs.OLD PHOTOS OF A SAILING BOATThey hang on the wall of a tiny room - not an office, just ahole-in-the-wall Will has turned into his own. He sits at a table, makingnotes. A knock - Diamond enters.DIAMONDI thought you'd like to know - we're looking at mitochondrial DNA,WILLThanks for telling me.THEY LOOK AT ONE ANOTHER. IT'S AN AWKWARD MOMENT - NEITHER ONE QUITE SUREWHETHER OR HOW TO CONTINUE THE CONVERSATION. DIAMOND SEES THE PHOTOS -DIAMONDIs that you?She points at a man in his 20s standing on the deck in one of the photos,Will nods.DIAMOND (CONT'D)Seattle. Is that where you went to school?Will hesitates - we sense that he doesn't really want to answer.WILLNo. Princeton.DIAMONDExpensive.WILLA scholarship. Then I did some post-graduate work... I never reallyfinished.Something in the way Will says it - some sense of loss - makes Diamondpause. She recovers and looks in her wallet. She pulls out a photograph andhands it to Will. It shows a small sailing boatgaff-rigged and a varnishedhull.WILL (CONT'D)It's a Kestrel 24 - I haven't seen one of those in years. She's a beautifulboatiDIAMONDMy grandfather left it to me. I don't sail it much any more - it's too hardto find a for'etd hand.WILLWhat about your husband - doesn't he sail.DIAMONDI don't know - I haven't met him yet.WILL LOOKS AT HER. HIS EXPRESSION SAYS IT - WHAT? SHE SHRUGS -DIAMONDI wanted a baby but I'm thirty-four-years old. Sooner or later you realizethat somewhere along the way you've missed the man you've been waiting for.WILLWhat did you do - ask a friend?DIAMONDI thought of it.WILLLucky friend.DIAMONDI went to a clinic. Not exactly romantic, but it worked.(pauses)Good idea, bad timing.WILLHow many people have you put on the mDNA?DIAMONDSeven.WILLThat's all?!DIAMONDThat's all I can spare. It's just a theory -one of dozens of theories.Will looks away in disgust.DIAMOND (CONT'D)What is it with you - it's not just science is it? Why are you sopassionate about this?WILLI know I'm right. It's a mutation. A hundred thousand years it's probablybeen lying there -shifting, weaving into the mDNA. You either go back andchange evolution or you engineer it out. Seven peopleYou might as wellshoot peas at a dam.DIAMONDYou haven't answered my question - why so passionate?WILLThe question's not relevant. The only thing I'm interested in is thescience.He turns back to his work. We hear the door close as Diamond leaves.A GEODESIC DOMEWhite, space-age, is being erected on the lawn. Workmen are unloading theNASA trucks. We pull back through a high window of the Biology building. Awoman stands there, looking out. Her name is KRIS McQUADE. This is heroffice -MCQUADEYou want to tell me what's going on?She turns and looks at Diamond, sitting on the other side of the desk,DIAMONDDon't ask, Kris, I'd have to lie and I don't want to do that to my bestfriend,MCQUADEThe rumor is, you've done something really big. They say the DefenseDepartment is taking it over.Diamond just sits there, staring straight ahead. McQuade waits. Finally -MCQUADE (CONT'D)Okay, okay - I'm sorry I asked. So what about this guy - what's he done?DIAMONDHe hasn't done anything - I'm just interested.MCQUADETen thousand employment records I've got on file and you want to know abouta lab assisant?DIAMONDThe smartest assistant I've ever known.MCQUADEWhat - he can mop and fart at the same time?She picks up pages from a computer printer - including a copy of Will'sphoto I.D.MCQUADE (CONT'D)He's handsome, at least I'll say -(a thought strikes her)Jesus - you're not interested in him like that, are you?DIAMONDNo, but he's the most unbelievable smelling man.MCQUADESmelling? You're pregnant - obviously your hormones have gone crazy. Whatexactly does he smell like?DIAMONDYou know...(searching for the right word).., wholesome.MCQUADEOf course he does - that's the Lysol.Diamond laughs but McQuade barely notices it. She's leafing through WiU'sfile -MCQUADE (CONT'D)That's strange - there's supposed to be a background sheet. Family, school-all that shit. It must have gotten lost.Before Diamond can say anything, a young man enters. He's McQuada'sassistant.ASSISTANTYour secretary's on the line, Dr Diamond. There's a call for you.DIAMONDTell her to take a message.ASSISTANTIt's the New York Times.MCQUADEWhat do they want?DIAMONDI think Washington's news management just went south.THE WHITE HOUSENight. Scores of television news vans are parked outsideDutch, Japanese andFrench reporters are doing stand-ups live-to-air. We hear Peter Jennings ofABC.JENNINGS (O.S.)We're standing by to go live to Washington as events continue to unfold onthis remarkable day. I don't think there's a person anywhere who's notsitting by a radio or television now. I'm told the President is on his wayto the press room -FIFTH AVENUEis totally empty - just a young man on rollerblades. He skates effortlesslydown the deserted avenue - past Tiffany's and the Trump Tower, all silentnow.PRESIDENT (O.S.)My fellow Americans...The rollerblader passes the cathedral of St John. The front doors are open.Someone is playing the organ - Mozart's Requiem. The rollerblader fadesinto the night.STEEL DOOR OPENSA sharp-faced caretaker - scruffy clothes and a limp - escorts Will into avaulted basement. All we can see are silhouettestowers of crates, racks ofequipment...CARETAKERThis used to be the basement of the Psychology Department. We just sort ofstacked everything around 'em -He flicks a switch - the storage room floods with light. He points at twolong iron cylinders - like small submarines - rigged up to a series ofvalves and pipes.CARETAKER (CONT'D)Flotation tanks. They used 'em for experiments in sensory degradation -WILLDeprivation - sensory deprivation.CARETAKERYeah, well - whatever.SHAFT OF LIGHTWILL OPENS AN IRON HATCH THAT GIVES ACCESS INTO ONE OF THE TANKS. HE DROPSINTO IT AND WALKS FORWARD, EXAMINING IT. THE DARKNESS CLOSES AROUND HIM. HESTARES AHEAD. VOICES DRIFT OUT OF MEMORY -YOUNG MAN (O.S.)Now I know what a mole feels like -YOUNG WOMAN (O.S.)(lightly)It feels like a fucking coffin, that's what it feels like.Other voices laugh. They're all young and like the young they think they'llnever die.CARETAKER (O.S.)Hey, fella - what are you doing?HE'S PEERING DOWN THROUGH THE HATCH. WILL DRAGS HIMSELF OUT OF THE PAST. HETURNS -WILLJust looking. I'll be coming back - I'll need a key.The caretaker shrugs - sure. Will climbs out of the tank.WILL (CONT'D)One other thing - don't tell anyone, huh?CARETAKERWho would I tell? They treat me like shit Worse than shit. All work, noappreciation. The phantom of Harvard. Someone should write a fuckingmusical about me.CIRCLES OF LIGHTDesk lamps, glowing in an office. Diamond and a team of researchers areworking through piles of old journals and extracts from scientific papers.RESEARCHERHere's another one - "Mitochondrial DNAA Map to the Past."DIAMONDWho's it by?RESEARCHERSame guy - Doctor Robert Plant.DIAMONDJesus, what did this guy do - write the book on it? Who is he?HUGE BOOK BEING OPENEDIt's a scientific directory. The researcher flicks the pages and stops at"Plant".RESEARCHERWow - I thought your career was impressive.Diamond looks up from her reading.RESEARCHER (CONT'D)Degrees in medicine and microbiology. A PhD at 24, a member of the Academyof Sciences, published twenty times by 1974...DIAMONDAnd then?RESEARCHERThen nothing.DIAMOND REACTS. SHE GETS TO HER FEET, COMING CLOSER -DIAMONDWhere did he go as an undergraduate?RESEARCHERPrinceton.DIAMONDOn a scholarship?A CORRIDORIt's late at night. The scientists and their staff are working around theclock. Will wheels a trolley laden with bottles, vials, and catheters downa crowded corridor. Diamond pushes through the people behind, trying tocatch up to him. Scientists turn to speak to her but she ignores them.DIAMOND (CONT'D)Robert!Will keeps walking, heading for an elevator. Diamond skirts around a knotof people.DIAMOND (CONT'D)Doctor Plant!Will hesitates - one split second - then keeps going. The elevator doorsslide open. Will steps in, turns and hits a button. He watches Diamondpushing towards him. For a moment their eyes meet. She comes closer.Sswhish! The doors slide shut.DIAMOND'S OFFICEShe sits behind her desk, listening to the chief of campus security.SECURITY OFFICERThe equipment you saw him with was taken from three labs. It includes arange of genetic material-(hands her an inventory)We've checked all the buildings your team is using - he's not in any ofthem.DIAMONDWhat about hie house?SECURITY OFFICERHe asked his landlady to look after his cat. She hasn't seen him for threedays.IN THE BASEMENTthere's a make-shift bed and a hot-plate with a battered saucepan. Next toit is a rack of medical equipment and laboratory vials.Will is sit'ting in front of three computers running in parallel - data andequations reel across them. The caretaker comes out of the shadows,carrying two mugs of thick coffee. He puts one down next to Will -CARETAKERYou wanna tell me what exactly you're doing?WILLLooking for a date.The caretaker stares at the confusion of diagrams and equations on thescreen -CARETAKERWhat's wrong with a calendar?WILLThese are chemical sequences - they represent human genes. By following atrail of mutations, I can date them. I'm trying to find out when a majorchange occurred in something called the mitochondrial DNA.CARETAKERThe mitochondrial DNA? Yeah... well that makes sense.But Will barely hears it. Suddenly he's leaning forward, keyboarding incomplex commands. The caretaker watches him -CARETAKER (CONT'D)You've found it?WILLMaybe...He has illustrations of two long-chain molecules on the screen. He movesthem together. Aa they overlap, we see they're not identical - the tail ofone kicks upwarda. Will starel at it -WILL (CONT'D)(softly)Yeah - I've found it.CARETAKERSo - what's the date?Will presses a key. Faster than the eye can follow, the first long-chainmolecule starts to shift and mutate. Finally it resolves itself into thesecond molecule. Will looks at a graph on the side of the screen -WILLThe best computer science can do? One hundred and two thousand years ago.CARETAKERSort of what I figured - give or take a day or two.DIAMOND'S OFFICEDiamond is poring through scientific articles written by Will. She flicks apage -there's a photo of Will, 20 years younger, surrounded by threecolleagues. He's got his arm around one of them - an attractive youngwoman.Diamond lifts the photo, looking at it more closely. She starts to read thecaption. We push in on it and hold on the words... "UC Berkeley".WE ARE FLYINGswooping and soaring - through a weird landscape of towering cliffs,tumbling streams and primordial forest. There's something unreal about it -we pull back to reveal they're computer-generated images, playing on thescreens in the basement.The caretaker has pulled up a chair. He and Will are watching the imagesgenerated by a CD-ROM.WILLThis is someone's version of the prehistoric world. I'm interested in thegeography, the atmosphere -that sort of stuff.CARETAKERWhere are we?WILLAfrica - that's where Mankind started.Will keeps looking at the strange images. The caretaker gets to his feet -CARETAKERI'll see you in the morning.WILLYeah.The caretaker limps towards the door. Will looks up -WILL (CONT'D)Thank you - for helping me, I mean.CARETAKERIt sounds like you're leaving or something.WILLNo. I just wanted to say it, that's all.The caretaker keeps looking at him -CARETAKERWhat exactly are you doing? You're a bit old to try and make your mark,aren't you? Anyway, nobody listens to people like us.WILLFate can be kind - sometimes a man gets a second chance. Do you know whatit's like to be ridiculed, to have your ideas thrown back in your face? Andthat was the easy part. I guess that's what I'm doing - I want to provethat I was right.CARETAKERYou're lying to me.WILLWhat do you mean?!CARETAKERYou are going somewhere. I don't know where it is. I'm not even sure I canimagine it. Good luck, though. I hope you find whatever it is you'relooking for.WILLThanks.CARETAKERNo point in getting you breakfast, huh?Will shakes his head - no. They smile at each other. The caretaker turnsand goes.DIAMOND'S OFFICEDiamond looks up from the papers and articles littering her desk. HerSecretary stands in the doorway -SECRETARYI've got Eleanor Wilkins on the phone. She runs the archives at Berkeley.DIAMOND(into phone)Ms Wilkins?We push in tight on Diamond's face as she listens. Anxiety and alarmregister on it.OUTER OFFICEThe security officer and several of his men are looking at maps of thecampus. Researchers and scientists have gathered in the office, rumors areflying. Everyone turns - Diamond stands in the doorway to her office. Shelooks at deMaupassant.DIAMOND (CONT'D)You were right, Luc. That work you remembered from Berkeley - he was theone that did it. He said man was the last step on an evolutionary trail.Within every one of us is the history of our race. It's imprinted on ourgenes - like a map. Anyone that can find the chemical key can travel backdown it. Through the womb. Through time and space -(she looks at them all)That's what he's doing. He's going back. He's going to try and changeevolution.SECURITY OFFICERIs that possible?DIAMONDHe was the best of his generation. He thinks so. He's got the geneticmaterial for the key. All he needs are flotation tanks.THE FLOTATION TANKSThe valves are open - warm water is pouring into the tanks.Will sits next to the rack of medical equipment, beads of sweat on hisforehead. He slides a syringe into his forearm and inserts a catheter. Heopens a series of tiny valves on the glass vials. A cocktail of fluid -minutely measured doses - flows down the clear plastic towards his arm. Thefluid hits his blood stream and drains into it.A LONG CORRIDORDiamond and the others run fast through pools of light cast by naked bulbs.Ahead -a pair of swing doors -BOBA theory's one thing - do you really think he'll try it?DIAMONDHe's spent fifteen years as a lab assistant. He lives in a two room walk-upwith a cat. No family, no friends. What's There's left for him here? Ofcourse he'll do it.Smack! They push through the doors, into another corridor.AN IRON LADDERWill climbs up the side of the flotation tank. Suddenly he stops - atremor, a rippling wave, passes from his feet to his head. It's his musclescontracting. It wracks him with pain. He gasps at the intensity of it.Smash! The steel door into the basement shudders as someone tries to getin. Will looks up - the door twists and moves. His vision is starting todistort. He grabs the access hatch and swings through -Splashl He drops into the water. Clang! He closes the hatch.Barn? The steel door flies open. The security officer lowers a sledgehammer. Diamond steps in end throws a light switch.DARKNESS IN THE TANKWill floats on his back, the only sound is the rapid thump of hisheartbeat. The water sloshes back and forth - his muscles are going intospasms. We push along his body - up to his face. His eyes roll back intohis headlAll we see are the whites of them. They shatter into a web of capillaries -WILL'S POVred mist swirls in front of him. It resolves itself into a web ofinterwoven tendrils -the double helix of the DNA molecule. Will starts totravel through it -INSIDE THE TANKWill is morphing, shedding cells - we're losing him in the warm, dark fluidof the tank. It's like the womb. His body seems to be disintegrating,dissolving into it. Water flows through the sockets where his eyes oncewere.His hollow mouth opens. From far away we hear him scream - a primal scream.OUTSIDE THE TANKNot a sound escapes. The security officer is about to try and open thehatch.DIAMOND (O.S.)NO!The security officer turns - Diamond is holding the catheter in her hand.DIAMOND (CONT'D)If we open the hatch, I think we'll kill him. It's too late - it's hisjourney, he's going to have to take it.INSIDE THE TANKWill's body is like a shadow, almost one with the water, growing lessdistinct by the moment. What is left of his face - a strange, shiftingshape - floats towards us. Closer... closer. It melts completely into thewater -WILL'S POVHe spirals down a tunnel - into a whirlpool of white light. As he hits, itshatters into a million fragments of light. It looks like a comet, wheelingthrough the heavens. A cosmic wind blows it forward. Will is travelingthrough space and time -OUTSIDE THE TANKDiamond and the others are gathered around the computers. Bob is workingthe keyboard. Diamond is looking.through the piles of papers, notes andstar charts.DIAMONDEverything's here - he kept a record of every step. He can even tell thedate -forty hours after he arrives there's a solar eclipse.BOBBillie - there's a note for you.Diamond looks over his shoulder at the computer screen. She reads what iswrit'ten -DIAMOND"I won't be here, but if I solve this thing make sure you tell them,Billie. Tell them it was Robert Plant, Doctor Robert Plant of UC Berkeley."THE FRAGMENTS OF LIGHTblaze through the heavens. They draw together, changing and reconstitutinginto a shape we recognize - the interwoven strands of DNA molecules. Thestrands connect. A blast of light! It's the rays of -THE SUNstreaming into a cave. Will lies in the fetal position, bleeding from hisnose and ears. The light grows stronger - it's dawn. Will drags himself upand stumbles towards the entrance. We tilt up from him. He doesn't see it,but we do - prehistoric cave paintings are etched into the rock.A CRAGGY PEAKWill steps out of the cave. Sunrise sweeps over a world born brand new -plains and jungle and primordial forest. Rising above it is a snow-cappedmountain that looks like Kilamlnjlro. A ragged gash runs across the earth -a rift valley. Will stares at it. He raises his face to the sun. He did it.The first step's over - and he did itl He looks down - rising out of thevalley is a tiny pillar of smoke.A FOREST CLEARINGIn the middle are the smoldering remains of a camp-fire. Will movescautiously towards it. He stops - several bodies, terribly mangled, lie onthe ground.Will turns one of them over - he's got matted hair, a heavy brow and ashort, muscular body. As primitive as he is, there's no doubt of hisspecies. He is a man. A Paleolithic man.This was a hunting party -scattered weapons and the trussed carcasses ofdead animals lie nearby. For a moment Will thinks the hunters must havebeen torn apart by wild animals. Then he looks up into the trees - morebodies of the hunters. But no animal did this - they hang from iron chains,left there as some sort of trophy. Or a warning.CRUSHED LEAVES AND BROKEN PLANTSWill is following a tiny trail through the forest. He's taken what isuseful from the bodies of the hunters - an otter-skin water bag, twoshort-handled spears and a bed-roll made from an animal pelt. He moves on -deeper into the shadows of the forest.A SPARKLING STREAMWill splashes through the crystal water. He looks upstream - a small lake.A flock of strange birds - like huge flamingos take flight in a blaze ofpink and gold.He steps out of the stream and along a path beneath a canopy ofover-arching trees. We hold on his feet - whip! He triggers something. Anet of woven vines engulfs him. He drops the spears and bedroll. Suddenlyhe's soaring through the air.He jerks to a halt - he's a netted animal hanging high in the trees. Thefaces of two Paleolithic men, crouched on boughs, stare at him.PLUME OF WATERcascades a hundred feet into a hidden gorge. Smoke curls up from fires.Scores of stone-age people - man, women and children - turn and look. Will,roped and bound, is being hauled into the encampment.The primitive people - nervous but intrigued - circle around him. They aredressed in skins and fur. talismans hang from their necks. The warriorscarry not only weapons but ritual scars across their foreheads. It makesthem look even more savage.Will is led past the haunches of soma massive animal cooking in a pit. Apile of ivory tusks lie nearby. The two captors jerk on the leash - itstops Will in front of a cave. Hanging from the roof is the giant pelt andhead of their totema saber-toothed tiger. This is the Tribe of the Tiger.A man emerges from under its outstretched paws. He's in his late 20's -proud and strong. His name is Kip-Kena - he is their leader. He and Willlook at one another.Kip uses his hands to sign to Will in the formal language of his race. Willstares at him - he has no idea what it means. He shrugs. Kip tries a newtack - he speaks. The sounds are rough and guttural - but understandable,KiP Where is your tribe?Will pauses, searching for an answer- where do you start? He gives up.WILLI don't have a tribe.A rolling murmur of disbelief from the surrounding tribe.KIPNo man can live without a tribe! How would he hunt the mighty animals? Whowould keep his fire burning?WILLI come from far away... I'm a traveler.KIPWhat is traveler? Is that a tribe?Again Will's at a loss. Something catches Kip's eye. He reaches forward andrips the water bag out from under Will's coat. The tribe reacts -KIP (CONT'D)You carry things taken from our hunters! Kill him.He turns away. Will throws himself at him -WILLNO!Whackl A blow to the back of Will's neck knocks him to his knees. He looksup -two warriors have their spears raised, about to plunge them into hischest.A sound like thunder - it's hooves. The warriors turn. Will follows theirgaze - half an army, mounted on horseback, surges into the gorge, They areheavily armed, dressed in armor but it's not their weaponry that astonishesWill. These are apes!The tribes-people scream in terror. They turn and run. The two warriorsforget about Will. He dives for cover in a pile of rocks. As he tearshimself free of the ropes that bind him, he looks out -The apes charge in to the camp. At their head is a huge gorillaripplingmuscles and intelligent eyes - deep set and yellow, like pissholes in thesnow. He wears a suit of black armor ribbed in silver. His name is Drak. Heis the Lord of the High Rivers, supreme commander of the ape army. Oneither side ride his elite Praetorian Guard.Woo-woo-woo! Kip swings a hollow piece of wood above his head. It's abull-roarer. The warriors of the tribe know its meaning - they rally toKip's side. Armed only with spears and primitive bows they stand betweenthe apes and their panic-driven people, trying to buy them time to get intothe cave.Sswhish! The sound of arrows. The apes carry triple-barreled ironcrossbows.Short iron bolts cut several of the tribesmen down. Dust and smoke swirlsacross the camp. Kip and his men, fighting all the way, retreat towards thecave.A baby's cry! Will turns - a toddler sits at a hearth, left behind in theconfusion. Will half rises to his feet, about to go for him. Too late -there's a blur of movement irt the trees. A tribe-boy - too young to be awarrior - has come back for the child.Out of the dust and smoke - Drak! Foam flies from his horse's mouth. He'sseen the boy and the child. He locks what looks like a Gatling gun tightunder his huge bicep.Will screams a warning. The boy turns - he sees Drak as he fires. A hail ofiron darts - twenty or more - cut him and the child down.Rage flashes in Will's eyes. He scrambles over a boulder and rips acrossbow from a dead ape's hand. He slides bolts into the barrels and grabsa lever with both hands -you need the strength of an ape to cock it. Asound behind him - little more than a whisper. He swings -It's an arrow.Whackl It rips into his shoulder, hurling him to the ground. Ape infantry -foot soldiers - are coming into the gorge behind him.In their midst are three huge steam-driven machines - like iron erectorsets. One is the Claw, one is the Balls and the other is the Flame.THE CAVE ENTRANCEKip and his warriors have seen them too. They scramble into the cave. Menand women are inside, swinging closed two huge stockade doors made fromtree trunks.Other warriors, caught outside, run for the closing gap. On their heels isWill - still clutching the crossbow, blood streaming from his wound. Thedoors are closing... closing. Will dives through the gap, almost crushed -INSIDE THE CAVESlam! The doors fly shut. Wham! A huge cross-beam drops into place. Will,sprawled in the dust, looks up - chaos. By torchlight, the medicine man istending the wounded, children are screaming, women and old people areclambering up a series of ledges. High above is a tiny slash ofdaylightanother entrance.From deep in the cave Will hears the roar of some animal but he doesn'thave time to think about it. Smash! The great wooden doors shudder fromsome mighty blow.OUTSIDE THE DOORSThe three machines are in place. The first of them has two huge stone ballssuspended by chains from an overhead jib. An ape sits right on top,operating it. The balls dance and swing wildly - smash! They hit the door,opening a hole.INSIDE THE CAVEDaylight streams in. Kip and his warriors have ranged themselves higharound the walls, ready to attack when the apes pour in. A pair of hugeiron jaws appear in the hole. This is the second of the apes' machines -the Claw.Another roar from the animal. Will watches the Claw reach in and grab themassive crossbeam. It snaps it like a twig. Will gets to his feet and runs.He sees Kip signal -AN OLD WARRIORis perched high on a series of wooden bars that seal off a corner of thecave, turning it into a cage. He opens it.Crash! The stockade doors at the front of the cave burst open. The first ofthe ape cavalry charges in. A roar from the unseen animal. The apes' horsescatch the scent of it. They whinny in terror.Will stares as a blur of striped fur and muscle flies out of the cage. Thetribe's totem is a living thing - the saber-toothed tiger ia three timesthe size of its Bengal cousin, a head the size of an ox and two ten-inchteeth curved down either side of its jaw.The horses are bucking and rearing. The tiger leaps towards the door,heading for freedom. A dismounted ape raises his weapon. The tiger doesn'teven break stride. One lazy swipe from his paw tears open the armor andflesh of the ape's chest.Will can smell the animal's breath as it flies past. An ape officer, stillon his horse, turns - another swipe from the.tiger's paw rips out histhroat.Kip and his warriors hurl their spears and stone tomahawks at the cavalry -half of them dismounted, all of them in disarray. The tiger runs soarsthrough the doorway -OUTSIDE THE CAVEDrak fights to control his mount as the tiger lands once and bounds intothe forest.ON THE LEDGESKip's men are fighting as they retreat, heading towards the opening at theroof of the cave. Will, clutching his wounded shoulder, makes his own wayup the wall.Beneath him, Drak and the apes roll in the third of the machines - a longiron tube in a rolling superstructure. Feeding it are a series ofoil-filled bladders. One of the apes touches a torch to a firing hole. Atongue of fire erupts from the end of the tube. It's a flame thrower -Thefiery tongue shoots up towards the roof of the cave. The flame engulfs twowarriors. Skin blazing, they plummet to the ground.The flame thrower fires again - scorching the rock wall, filling the cavewit a pall of smoke. It hits the tiny patch of daylight, cutting offescape.Will - trapped - runs along a ledge, over a pile of rocks and jumps. Intomid-air! He lands on the back of a riderless horse and drives his heelsinto its flanks.The apes and the surviving warriors turn. For a moment they just stare -nobody's ever seen a human ride a horse before. Will flies towards theentrance. He sees Kip on a ledge just above, battling three huge apes.WILLJump!Kip sees Will galloping towards him. One of the apes raises a double-bladedsword. Kip jumps sprawling across the horse's neck, grabbing on to itsflowing mane.Drak stares at Will - he's never seen anything like him. He wheels hishorse around and spurs it forward in pursuit.OUTSIDE THE CAVEWill's horse bursts out of the cave - past the Claw and under the Balls.The apes turn and look - astonished. They scramble for their horses. Drakcharges through.Will hurtles towards the trees. Kip, hanging on for life, looks behind -Drak raises his Gatling gun and aims. Kip wrenches Will's head down - zing!The arrows skim past.Drak can't outpace them - and he can't re-load at the gallop either. Theycharge out of the camp, into -THE DAPPLED LIGHT OF THE FORESTDrak rises up in the stirrups and hauls himself on to the saddlethe hugeape stands on the back of the charging horse!He jumps - his rippling arms catch hold of an overhanging bough. He swingshimself up into the tree - he is an ape, after all. He throws himself frombranch to bough, traveling at incredible speed.Will glances back - he sees Drak's riderless horse. His eyes dart inconfusion -where is he? We crane up - he's in the trees above! Drak jumps -Wham! Hundreds of pounds of gorilla blast into Will's shoulder, lifting himout of the saddle and hurling him to the ground.Kip hauls down on the horse's bridle - wheeling the stallion around.Will looks up from the dust - Drak towers above him. Will sees Kip comingback -WILL (CONT'D)Run!A volley of arrows whiz past Kip - other apes are galloping through thetrees. Kip grabs the bridle and kicks - the horse spins and gallops away.massive, armor-clad paw grabs Will's head. He looks straight into Drak'sface. The ape reaches out and rips a claw down Will's cheek. Will tries tostifle the scream. Drak touches the wound and tastes the blood -DRAKSo - it's human, after ell.He spits the blood out in revulsion. Will stares into the piu-holes in hisface. Never has he seen eyes so cold.Will tries to rise to hie feet. His wounded shoulder has weakened him - hestaggers. Drak's clenched fist, clad in chain mail, drives straight etWill's jaw. Smashl Fade to black.THE WORLD UPSIDE DOWNIt's Will's point of view - he-s lying on his back in a horse-drawn cart.He's very weak, his shirt drenched in blood. He rolls over and the imagerights itself.He drags himself on to all fours but he can't get any further - his legsare chained.WILL(fevered, disoriented)Where the fuck am I?Will looks up - a huge ape sits guard in the back of the wagon.GUARD(smiling)The end of the road.Will - confused, panicky - grabs the side of the cart and hauls himself tohis knees. He looks past an escort of ape cavalry - they are traveling downan avenue of idols -towering statues of apes, sculpted out of stone, old asages past. Fires burn somewhere within them giving the eyes a red,flickering glow.Will turns away. Behind him he sees humans, rows of them - dead - hangingupsidl down from long poles like trophies.Everything comes flooding back - he slumps against the side of the cart,eyes barely focused. Blood trickles down under his shirt and forms a poolbetween his legs. He doesn't even notice it.MASSIVE IRON AND WOOD BRIDGEspans a roaring river. Drak and his convoy clatter across it. We crane up -laid out before is a city. Terraces are cut into both sides of a jaggedravine. Opening on to them are caves and houses and buildings made out ofstone.Apes are everywhere - hammering stones to enlarge a house, chattering inthe trees, swinging hand-over-hand along horizontal ladders - crossing fromone side of the ravine to the other.Will has roused himself. He stares at the city through feverish eyes - tohim, it appears to float. Buildings swim in and out of focus. His shouldersshake - he starts to laugh, an edge of hysteria to it.WILLA city... of course. Ape city! I've destroyed my mind. Or maybe I'm deadand this is God's last joke - hell is ruled by apes.Whhish - the end of a whip sails through the air. Crack! It hits Will'sback, doubling him over.GUARDQuiet, animal!RIPPLES OF WATERrun across the surface of a beautiful pool. A black shape glides alongunderwater. The head breaks the surface - it's an old gorilla, the fur onhis face gray and balding. This is NAZGUL. He is the Ghan - the President -of the Council of Elders.He walks out of the water. Other old apes - all male, their days of warringand building over - lie around the pool. Several of them, draped only inrough loin-cloths, groom each other, picking nits out of their fur.The sound of a gong! Nazgul picks up a loin cloth and walks the end of thepool. He looks straight down the ravine - at the far end, Drak and histroop come into view.NAZGULThe raiders are home.OLD APE(lazily)Good hunting?Nazgul squints against the sun. He sees the poles carrying the dead humans.NAZGULBy the look of it.GRAY-BEARDED WARRIOR, HIS CHEST MARKED BY THE SCARS OF MANY BATTLES, GETSUP -GRAY BEARD(proudly)Not as good as when we rode the high ridges, I'll warrant.NAZGULTimes are different now. Back then, a could go out and come back with abrace of animals. They're far scarcer now -OLD APENot scarce enough, I say.There's a murmur of agreement from the other apes.A TINY BOATis wreathed in woven leaves. Lying in it is the dead body of a young ape.The boat drifts down an underground stream. All around it rise the stonewalls of a huge cavern. Torches light up the gloom - this place is atemple.A group of apes - mourners - walk along a path, keeping pace with thefuneral boat.They make a humming sound deep in the back of their throats - a dirge forthe dead.At the head of the procession, swinging a smoking censer, is an ape wearinga lion-skin cloak. His face is scarred and twisted - he has one cruel eye,the other is just an empty socket. Beneath the cloak, one arm and a leg arewithered. The whole effect, rather than diminishing his power, enhances it.His name is MA-GOG. He is high priest of the apes, defender of the faith,keeper of the Book of the Lore.The funeral boat gathers speed in the current. It thrusts towards sunlightpouring through an arch.A ROCK PLATFORMThe mourners step through the arch and on to a slab of rock. We pull backto reveal where they stand - a huge crouching ape has been carved out ofthe face of a cliff, Its bowed front legs form the archway, the entrance tothe temple of the ape.CLOUDS OF MIST AND WIND-BLOWN SPRAY SWEEP OVER MA-GOG AND THE MOURNERS. ALLAROUND THEM, THE SOUND OF ROARING WATER. THE FUNERAL BOAT FLOATS OUT OF THETEMPLE AND INTO A ROARING RIVER. MA-GOG SWINGS THE CENSER OVER THE WATER -MA -GOG(intoning)In the beginning was the word, and the word was the Book of the Lore. Itsays God created the ape in His own image. Alone among His creatures, theape has a soul. One crosses the river now but death is only a door. He willdwell in the house of the Lord forever. Amen The mourners beat their chestswith their fists. They repeat the word "Amen".For a moment the clouds of mist clear. Now we see where the boat is headed- half an ocean of water pours over a sheer drop. These are the Falls of NoReturn. The boat races forward - over the waterfall it goes.The sound of cheering voices, very faint, drifts towards them. Ma-Gog turnsand looks up the river towards the city -APES HANG FROM THE 'LADDERS'looking down on Drak and his troops. The convoy passes along a road cutinto the side of the ridge. Apes have come out of the houses and buildingsto greet them.Will lies in the back of the cart, unconscious. Faces of apes stare in athim - they've never seen anything like it. A young ape - a little boy -stands with his grandfather.KIDWhat is it?GRANDFATHERSome... sort of human.KIDBut look at the eyes, 'Pa - they're the color of the sea. Where's it from?GRANDFATHERI don't know - a traveler, maybe. Nobody knows what lies beyond the Towerof the Moon.THE WORD "TRAVELER" IS PICKED UP BY OTHER APES. IT RIPPLES THROUGH THECROWD. A WOMAN ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WAGON CALLS OUT -WOMANNo it's not - it's a mutant.LABORERPut it in the zoo!A female ape pushes them aside. She's heavy-set, bright eyes, an air ofauthority about her. Over her shoulder she carries a leather satchel with aseries of steel instruments dangling from it. Her name is ZORA - she is adoctor.She and her ASSISTANT - a young male - swing themselves on to the cart.Kneeling beside him, Zora puts her hand down and grabs hold of Will'scrotch.ZORAWhatever it is, it's male.She rips open Will's shirt - his chest is covered in blood from the gapingwound.ZORA (CONT'D)Probe.The Assistant hands her a steel instrument. She slides it towards thewound. We hold on Will's face - a strangled cry but he doesn't regainconsciousness. Zore returns the bloodied probe to her Assistant. She callsout -ZORA (CONT'D)Drak!The leader of the ape warriors, riding close by, turns -ZORA (CONT'D)The animal's bleeding to death, my Lord.Drak rides up to the wagon.DRAKI didn't bring him all this way just to have him die.ZORA(to the assistant)Ben-Guri - get a vet. QuicklylAN APE IN A LEATHER APRONuses a grinding wheel to sharpen a gruesome looking knife. This is the VET.Will lies on a stone slab nearby - it's a sort of medical centersinks alongthe walls, racks of equipment, hoses to wash down the blood.The Vet cuts the clothing away from Will's wound. He turns to Doctor Zora -VETWe're going to have to give him blood.PRISONER IN A CELLHe's a tribesman - in his late 40s. Despite his tattered furs and hollowcheeks, he carries himself with dignity - he's a proud man. His name isARAGORN. On a chain around his neck he wears a metal ornament, likecrescent moon. Etched into it are strange markings and the totems ofvarious tribes.The sound of a key in lock. Aragorn turns - the cell door is thrown back.Three ape guards enter. Two of them, armed with spears, drive Aragorn intoa corner. The third ape has a leather collar on the end of a pole. He dropsit over Aragorn's head.Aragorn struggles but the ape jerks the collar tight. They drag him fromthe cell.TEAM OF HORSES- their flanks drenched in sweat - walk in a circle. They turn a huge wheelthat controls a series of pulleys and winches. Attached to the end of aheavy cable is a wooden platform - a primitive elevator. It runs from aseries of impressive house, down the side of the ravine, to the center ofthe city.Standing on the platform are Nazgul and several other elders. They lookdown on the central square. It's crowded with apes - soldiers are beinggreeted by their kin.ARAGORN LIES ON HIS BACKHe's strapped to a slab, half-naked, in the medical center. They've put agag in his mouth and though he struggles to free himself, he can barelymove.Will, still unconscious, lies on a table next to him. Nazgul peers down athim.NAZGULIt's human, you say?Doctor Zora nods - yes.NAZGULIt's even uglier than the others.He pulls a covering aside and looks at Will's naked legs.NAZGUL (CONT'D)How can he hunt with legs like those -they're like twigs. Maybe he'sdiseased.Everybody shrugs - who knows?The Vet heats a steel needle over an open flame. The other end of theneedle is attached to a length of animal intestine. It acts as a tube. TheVet grabs Will's forearm and slides the red-hot needle into the vein.Will's body jerks with the pain. Nazgul and the others spring back.For a moment Will's wrenched back to consciousness - he sees a light-filledroom, a bandage on his chest, a bladder full of blood hanging above him.His puts it together the only way he knows - he thinks he's in hospitalWILL(groggy)Help me. I've got health insurance. Honest...His eyes close as he slips back into darkness. Nazgul looks at Doctor Zora.NAZGULWhat is health insurance?DOCTOR ZORASome sort of religion...?The Vet turns and makes an adjustment to the bladder. Another length oftubing snakes out of it and is attached by a needle to Aragorn's arm. It'shis blood. Now we realize - this is the ape version of a blood transfusion.NAZGULDo you think this'Il work?VETYou can never tell with animals. Their bodies aren't as sophisticated as anape's. Sometimes their blood fights with each other. Either way, you knowreally quick -they get up and walk around, or they're dead.The Vet turns a little tap - Aragorn's blood flows down the tube. It hitsWill's vein.WORDS CHISELED INTO STONE"An Ape without knowledge is a fire without light."Euripadape IIIIt stands over the doorway of a building high on a ridge. This is the Hallof Learning. Ma-Gog - his lion skin cloak billowing behind him - hurries upthe steps.THE BLADDER OF BLOODis empty. Guards are collaring Aragorn, preparing to drag him out. The doorinto the room is thrown open. Ma-Gog enters. Nazgul and the others greethim but he barely acknowledges it *MA-GOGShow him to me.The Vet grabs Will's hair. He lifts up his head so that Ma-Gog can see hisface.The high priest takes a step back - there's something about Will that fillshim with loathing. Anger flashes in his one good eye. He stares at Will.His voice is Iow, almost to himself -MA-GOG (CONT'D)All my life I've dreaded this day.(turns to the others)Kill him.DOCTOR ZORAWe've just spent an hour trying to save him -MA-GOGKill him!He grabs the stand holding the bladder and throws it to the ground. DoctorZora takes his arm, stopping him -DOCTOR ZORAThe animal's unique, my lord. At least we should look at his brain. Maybeit's possible to remove the frontal lobes without killing him. Imagine - atame human!MA-GOGMan can't be tamed. Alone among God's primates he kills for lust or greed.He will murder his own brother to possess his brother's land.NAZGULThe doctor's only asking for a chance to experiment. The benefits would beenormous. A tame species of human could double food production, at last wecould dam the rivers.MA-GOGYou don't know what you're dealing with.NAZGULIt's just an animal, Ma-Gog.MA-GOGIt's not. That's the trouble.A movement on the stone slab. They turn and look - Will's eyelids arefluttering. He's starting to come round. itlHe turns to Nazgul In the name of God - summon the Council of Elders.Will's eyes are open now. Like through a glass - darkly - he sees the apeguards coming for him. He tries to struggle but he's very weak. They haulhim off.HEAVY IRON DOORset in a rock wall - on one side a key-hole. We tilt up the door to anarrow set of bars high above it. A face, straining with effort, rises upto peer through the bars. It is Will - looking like death but forcinghimself to do it, desperate to see where he is.INSIDE THE CELLThe muscles across his shoulders ripple. His one good hand clutches thebars. He hangs by it, supporting his weight, staring out at a vaultedunderground cavern. It looks like a cattle-yard, broken down and disusednowa series of long pens, wooden chutes and a primitive conveyor belt.Will can't support himself any longer - he tumbles to the ground. He crawlsacross the floor and examines the door. It fits tight to the rock. There'sno hope of picking the lock - the key-hole doesn't even come all the waythrough.Suddenly he stops. Nothing for a moment, then he hears it again - ascraping sound.He peers under the wooden bed at the stone blocks that form wall. One ofthe blocks moves. Will grabs hold of it and hauls it into the cell. Aragornsqueezes through from the adjoining cell. He looks at Will -ARAGORNSo you lived, then?WILLWhat did they do?ARAGORNThey gave you blood.He holds up his bandaged forearm - Will realizes where it came from.WILLI hope you had a medical.Aragorn looks at him - confused. From a distance, the sound of horseswhinnying.WILL (CONT'D)What is this place?ARAGORNIt was a slaughterhouse.WILLFor horses?ARAGORNThey use it for stables now. No - s different kind of animal. For humans.Will stares, taken aback. Aragorn starts to gather twigs from the cornersof the cell.ARAGORN (CONT'D)In my father's time, the apes rounded up tribes and brought them here.Young apes killed some during their manhood rites, the others were madesport of in the corrals. At the end, the bodies were thrown onto the beltsand fed to the fire.Aragorn has made a pyramid of twigs and leaves. From out of his cloak, hetakes two pieces of flint and strikes them. A spark starts the fire -ARAGORN (CONT'D)(softly)Death is stuck to these walls, stranger -sounds not even s thousand winterscan take away. Sometimes of s night they speak to me - I can hear thescreams of my people.Will looks at him. Firelight plays across their faces.WILLWhy haven't they killed you?ARAGORNThey keep me ss bait. My name is Aragorn -He lifts his hand to Will - palm outwards. It's some form of greeting. Willreturns it.ARAGORN (CONT'D)I am the Ranger of the Easterlings, the Leader of the Seven Tribes. Theyhope the warriors will come and try to free me.WILLAnd will they?ARAGORNNot if they fear my anger. I was taken in summer and now winter's almostgone. Even the apes grow tired - soon they'll make me walk the Paths of theDead.Will looks at Aragorn's eyes - they're fearless. The ornament glints on hischest. Will points at it -WILLwhat is it?ARAGORNIt's called the Crescent of Light - it's the talisman of my rank.WILLSilver.ARAGORNMithral is how we name it..Will reaches his hand towards it -WILLCan I borrow it?Aragorn recoils - this is the most precious thing in the world to him. Hishand closes around the insignia -ARAGORNWho are you? What brings you to the valley of the tribes?WILLI meant you no harm. I'm looking for woman, one of my own kind. Do you knowof people like me?ARAGORNNever.Will nods his head, accepting it. Slowly he reaches his hand out -WILLIf you want to get out of hare. I need the talisman. Aragorn.The two men look at each other. A beat - then Aragorn reaches up andunfastens it.THE TEMPLE OF THE APETorches burn on the walls. They cast a glow across the temple - theunderground stream, pools of water, shelves of rock hewn out of the walls.Several apes crouch on them, praying to a golden idol of an ape.Mist rises off of the pools. Moving through it, we see Nazgul, Drak and egroup of old apes. The Council of Elders is gathering. They pass through anarrow door -THE TEMPLE'S INNER CHAMBEROil lamps - hidden in alcoves - illuminate Ma-Gog. He stands in front of anancient book - strange symbols, like Sanskrit, run across its pages. Thisis the Book of the Lore.Ma-Gog looks at the Council of Elders seated in front of himNazgul, Drakand five other huge apes - all leaders in their time.MA-GOGHow many scrolls are there in the Book of the Lore?Nobody replies - the question is so obvious it needs no answer.MA-GOG (CONT'D)One-hundred-and-seventy-six, you say -every child knows that.(softly)But every child is wrong. There is one more scroll - the last scroll,sealed with seven seals, handed down from high priest to high priest...He slides his hand under the top of the pedestal and releases a hiddencatch. The top - the Book still resting on it - tilts up, revealing asecret compartment. It is lined with gold leaf. Lying in it is a slim folioof pages -MA-GOG (CONT'D)It is called the Scroll of Revelation.The Council of Elders stare in awed silence. Ma-Gog takes the pages out andunfastens the seals. He reads -MA-GOG (CONT'D)"And it was given unto me to know the wisdom of ages. A silence fell and Isaw a new heaven and a new earth. Like through a glass, darkly, I saw thefuture."The Council of Elders stare at him. He limps forward and stops in front ofthem. He recites from memory -MA-GOG (CONT'D)"Behold - there rose out of the earth a pale horse and the name of thehorse is Death. Those that ride on him are beasts, but like no beasts bornbefore. Their limbs are weak but their eyes are as cold as the sea. Theyare given power over the earth to kill with the sword and with famine andwith fire. And let him that hath understanding know the number of thesebeasts. It is the number of Man."He raises his eyes and looks straight at the Councilors.MA-GOG (CONT'D)Today we saw that beast. Mark those words, my Lords - "their limbs are weakbut they are given power over the earth". Now will you listen? Kill him!And if we don't? Then all hope will fail in this bitter winter.He lays down the secret scroll and closes the secret compartment. Nazgullooks from one to the other of the elders. Nobody says a word but he canread their grim expressions. He turns to Drek -NAZGULKill him. Kill him with the sword and with fire. Kill himlTHE KEYHOLE TO THE CELLIt's a shining bright image, slightly distorted. We pull back to revealit's a reflection. Aragorn's silver ornament has been polished to abrilliant luster. It's fixed to the end of a length of wood stickingthrough the bars high above the iron door.INSIDE THE CELLThe wooden bed has been smashed to pieces.Both Aragorn and Will have used parts of their clothing to harnessthemselves so they can see through the bars. Aragorn controls the pole withthe "mirror" on the end of it.By looking into it, Will can see the keyhole on the other side of the door.He has a pole with a nail attached to the end of it. He turns the pole,guiding the nail towards the keyhole. He's trying to pick the lock.WILLDo you understand time.., what time is it?Aragorn looks at the shadows in the slaughterhouse -ARAGORNSeven hours since the rising of the sun.WILLJust after noon...ARAGORNShouldn't we wait until night?WILL(concentrating)If I'm right, it's gonna be dark a lot sooner than you think.The nail is almost in the key-hole. Half an inch to go... a quarter. Itslides off. Will curses and starts again -THE SUNbeats down from a cloudleu sky. Drak and two huge Praetorian Guards - Maxand Hannibal - come through a huge stone portico. It's another entrance tothe Temple -one that opertl onto a central square. Orak and the two guardshurry across it. towards the slaughterhouu.THE NAILat the end of the pole slides into the keyhole. Will - barely breathing incase it breaks his concentration - listens carefully. He moves the end ofthe pole. The nail turns.HUGE SET OF DOORSare thrown open. Daylight spills into the slaughterhouse. Drak, Max andHannibal enter. Drak stops - he listens to the horses whinnying andstomping their hooves -DRAKSomething's wrong!(turns to Max)Get the dogs.HANNIBALmoves cautiously along the side one of the corrals, trying to see what'swrong with the horses. Behind him - a movement in the shadows.Sswhish. The sound of something slicing through the air. He turns -It's the side of Aragorn's hand. It chops hard into the ape's throat,shattering his larynx and blasting him into unconsciousness. He crumples tothe ground.Aragorn and Will strip him of his weapons. Will starts to go but Aragorntears a strip off both their shirts. He ties the fabric around the ape'sankles.WILLWhat are you doing?ARAGORNWatch - they're going to bring in the dogs.THE DOGSaren't really dogs at all - they're a much earlier ancestor. We call themwolves. There are two of them, on the end of heavy leather leashes. Theirhandlers have them in Will's cell, rubbing parts of the abandoned harnessesin front of their noses. The wolves take the scent.Drak watches as the handlers unfasten the leashes. The wolves leap out ofthe cell.HANNIBALrises groggily to his feet, clutching his injured throat. He takes a fewsteps forward -Grrrr! He turns - the two wolves fly towards him. He triesto yell but the only sound he can make is a squeak.He runs - the fabric, unseen by him, trails from his ankles. The wolvespound after him. He glances over his shoulder. First one wolf - then theother - leaps.Fangs and claws glistening, they hit him in the back, hurling him to theground. He writhes on to his back. One wolf tears at his ankles, the othergoes for his throat. Rip! Blood sprays as the artery breaks.A STONE PASSAGE-WAYWill and Aragorn are running, plunging down in to darkness. Arches andcorridors open off of it. It's like a labyrinth -WILLThis doesn't seem like the way out.ARAGORNWe're not going out - not yet.WILL STOPS, GRABBING HOLD OF HIM, TURNING HIM ROUND -WILLSo what are we doing?ARAGORN(softly)We're going killing.WILLKilling?! Don't be stupid -Will jerks on Aragorn's arm, starting to haul him back. Aragorn throws offhis hand -ARAGORNYou do what you like! But I'm the Ranger of the Easterlings -I won't leavehere until it's done.From behind them - the sounds of pursuit.WILLShit!He starts to run. Together they disappear into the gloom ahead.ROW OF CAGE-LIKE CELLSWill and Aragorn glide past them. They're taking it slowly, very carefully.Now we see why - ahead of them is a set of steel doors. Torches on eitherside illuminate a guard post but there's no sign of the sentry.Will and Aragorn move closer. They pass -CREVICE IN THE ROCKWe hold on the narrow opening, looking deep into the shadows. A big ape,heavily armed, stands there. He has his back to us, his legs spread. Atrickle of water runs down the rock and drains away - he's taking a piss. Ashadow flickers on the wall above him. He sees it -THE PASSAGE-WAYMoreshadows -Will and Aragorn are move through the torchlight. The steel doorsare straight ahead.The sentry slides out of the crevice - he's behind Will. Silently, backpressed again6t the bars of a cell, he creeps closer to Will. He has acurved knife in one hand and a short-handled spear in the other. Closer...closer.He raises the spear - a rustle of movement. Will spins - he sees the spearabout to thrust. He's a dead man.An arm? It shoots between the bars of the cell and locks around thesentry's throat, half choking him.Will leaps forward and drives the butt of a weapon into the sentry's jaw.The sentry crumples to the ground, revealing the face of the prisoner. It'snot a man, though -it's an ape. He's in his prime - barrel chested and afine head. His name is STRIDER.He and Will look at each other through the bars.STRIDERTwo rules in life - never play cards with anyone called Doc and never,whatever else you do, turn your back on an ape.Will stares at him. Strider grins. Will smiles back -WILLThanks. I'll remember that.He starts to search the sentry.ARAGORNWhat are you doing?WILLLooking for the keys.ARAGORNNo!WILLHe saved our lives.ARAGORNHe's an ape!Will shrugs himself free of Aragorn's hand -WILLYou go and kill as many apes as you like - I'm setting this one free.Aragorn looks at him. A beat.ARAGORN(softly)It's not apes I'm going to kill.A PRISON LABORATORYThe heavy steel doors stand open. Inside is a clean and gruesome room -sinks and instruments along a wall, a series of operating tables and a rowof cages.Behind the bars are six tribes-people - men, women and a little boy. All ofthem carry surgical scars on their heads. It's made two of them blind; theothers stare blankly into space.Aragorn moves down the cages. Several of them shuffle towards him butthere's no recognition - they're like the walking dead. Aragorn doesn't saya word. Grim-faced, he loads the crossbow and starts to fire, killing them.Will and Strider come through the doorway - they see Aragorn going fromcage to cage. Will steps forward, going to stop him. Strider's hand grabshis shoulder, restraining him.STRIDERLeave it. He knows what he's doing.Will turns and looks at him, questioning.STRIDER (CONT'D)The doctors operate on them - up here.(taps his head)The tribes think that we steal their souls...(he pauses - softly)Maybe they're right.Aragorn reaches the last cage. A woman - in her 20s - stands in the middleof the cell, looking at him. Aragorn stares at her face. His lip trembleswith emotion. She tilts her head on one side, as if trying to worksomething out. Tears fill Aragorn's eyes. She stumbles a step forward. TheRanger closes his eyes. He pulls the trigger. A crossbow bolt slams intoher chest and she falls.Will leans against the doorway, unwilling to watch, staring down thepassageway. He turns at a footfall - Aragorn rejoins them. His voice ishollow, as if something has died within him -ARAGORNIt's done. We can go now.He turns and leads them back down the passageway.THE WOLVESThere's five of them now, hunting through the slaughter-house in a pack.All around them we see the torches of the apes as they search the nooks andcrannies. The horses whinny wildly as they catch the scent of the wolves.Will, Aragorn and Strider are crouched in a corner of the corral, smearingtheir bodies with horse manure.STRIDERThe fresher the better. Cover everything -that's the only way you'll hideyour scent.The wolves sniff the air, coming closer. Will, staring through the rungs ofthe coral, sees their gleaming eyes coming closer. He raises his crossbow,getting ready.The wolves stop. They raise their heads and look - the whole cavern isgrowing dark. A giant shadow falls across the doorway into the outsideworld.The horses rear and buck. The apes are staring - darkness is falling in themiddle of the day. The wolves hackles rise in fear. They howl.Aragorn and Strider are cowering backARAGORNWhat is it?WILLCome on! Now!He drags them forward and grabs hold of one of the horses.AN UNEARTHLY LIGHThas fallen on the city. The apes are in confusion - soldiers and workersare running, children are screaming. A horse has thrown its rider and isbolting down the terraces.The darkness grows ever deeper. In the sky, the face of the moonobliterates the sun - it's a full solar eclipse.Two horses, flying at a gallop, charge through the doors of theslaughterhouse. Will is on one, Aragorn clinging to his back. Strider is onthe other. They wheel across an open space, through running apes, and speeddown a terrace.MA-GOGsteps out on to a rock ledge. He holds a staff in one hand, his cloakthrown back over his shoulder, magnificent in the eerie light. He staresdown at the chaos. Drak swings across a ladder and lands at his side -DRAKWhat is it?MA-GOG(wild)A sign - the hand of Man passes across the face of God! Lookl He points toa terrace below - Will leads the other two escapees along a road and on tothe iron bridge. Drak and Ma-Gog stare at them. Darkness engulfs them.Out of the blackness, an image -CHRIST ON THE CROSSIt's a stained-glass window in a huge cathedral. A priest is at the altarconducting Mass for the repose of the dead. We pull back to reveal a tinywhite coffin - just big enough for a baby. Next to it is another coffin.And another - a row of them.PRIESTAnd even now as sorrow has no end, we find comfort in the words of the LordJesus Christ. Did he not say unto Mark -"suffer the little children to comeunto me, for they are the Kingdom of Heaven. Now and forever." Amen.The congregation - sad-eyed relatives and weeping parents - fill the pews.CONGREGATIONAmen.Pall-bearers lift up the tiny coffins. The organ starts to play. A soloist- a tenor -steps to the side of the altar. He starts to sing the Latin hymn"Penis Angelicas". The haunting words of the hymn fill the cathedral. Theycarry over to -THE SPACE DOMEis lit up by banks of lights that turn night into day. The clock towerabove the biology building shows the time2.00am. Even so, the area bustleswith activity.INSIDE THE DOMEAn illuminated chart dominates one wall - just like the strategy map in thePentagon's war room. Every research center is identified - next to it isits function and a list of personnel. We see Princeton, Stanford, TexasA&M, Los Alamos. Tentacles reach out to Oxford, the Pasteur Institute, theUniversity of Beijing...Below the chart are nitrogen-cooled Cray super-computers. We track throughteams of men and women processing data, satellite dishes feeding acommunications network, a video conference taking place in a corner,technicians routing and re-routing phone calls and faxes.We come to a glass wall. On the other side is Diamond -A SMALL OFFICEGlass doors seal out the electronic hum. Diamond, staring through theglass, looks exhausted. DeMaupassent sits on a couch. He's in hisshirt-sleeves, dark rings under his eyes. Next to him is Bob, the youngneurologist. He wears jeans and a t-shirt. On the front it says"I'll sleep when I'm dead."The coffee table is piled with files, journal extracts and computerprint-outs. A video projector beams a complex molecular structure on to ascreen.Diamond rubs her eyes, trying to wipe away the fatigue.DIAMONDI'm sorry Luc - say that again.DEMAUPASSANTDEMAUPASSANT (CONT'D)(kindly)My fault, Billie - I rattle on too much. The result is - we've fixed thetime frame.He hits the projector - the image of a fetus developing normally in thewomb appears on the screen... deMAUPASSANTThe fetus develops normally through the first trimester. Then it happens -about sixteen weeks and two days, everything falls apart. The wholechemical structure goes out of control -He flashes up another image - a fetus that is already aging remarkably.deMAUPASSANTOnce it starts, it's irreversible. If we're going to stop it, we've got tointercede here -He points at the slide of the normally developing fetus.BOB(taking over)There's a trigger - some major fucking switch gets turned. That's what I'vebeen working on. It's definitely in the mDNA. There's a fragment of onechromosome I'm looking at -He flicks a switch on the video projector. A slide of a human gene,massively magnified, popl on to the screen.BOB (CONT'D)It's so different, I call it the alien. How it got there, exactly what itdoes - I haven't got the first idea.., no fucking idea at all.Diamond looks at his grim face. He seems totally defeated.DIAMOND(quietly)Is it that bad?He stares at the floor. There's not even a hint of the former arrogance.BOBSomeone's dropped us in the middle of the Louvre. We're blind men andthey've told us to find the Mona Lisa. There's four miles of galleries endwe've got five minutes to do it. That's how I feel -and that's when rmoptimistic.Diamond turns to deMaupassant.DIAMONDLuc?DEMAUPASSANTI'm sixty-two years old. I've seen us go from DC3s to landing on the moon.In my life I've won all the glittering prizes. I've always believed nothingwas beyond the reach of Man, but I'll tell you honestly - this may never beunraveled. If it is, it won't be in my lifetime.He looks at them. Silence. There's nothing anyone can say. He starts togather up his papers-DEMAUPASSANT (CONT'D)So what do we do? I think it's like Gatsby -"so we beat on, boats againstthe current, borne back ceaselessly into the past." There's no other way,ia there?They nod their hoods - you have to try. DeMaupaasant and Bob start toleave.DIAMONDLuc?(he turns))You're certain - about the time, I mean?DEMAUPASSANT(Nodding)Sixteen weeks. How far along are you?DIAMONDTwelve weeks.They look at one another. The old man speaks gently -DEMAUPASSANTGood night, Billie.A TINY FETUSperfectly formed - floats in the amniotic fluid. It's alive - the largehead sways, the heart beats through the translucent ribs.Diamond has her shirt pulled up and her jeans down around her thighs. Shelies on a stainless steel table in a hi-tach examination room. A complexarray of equipment -ultra-sounds and scanners - beams down on her exposedstomach. It projects a , video image onto a screen.She is alone in the room, manipulating the equipment herself. She stares upat the child growing in her womb. We see the genitalia.DIAMONDSo - you're a little boy. It's funny - I think I knew.She reaches up and gently touches the image of his face.DIAMOND (CONT'D)We've got four weeks. The way I see it -there's nothing to lose. I can'ttell you whet'Il happen to us. It's on the edge, mister. The air's so thinout there, we may not even be able to breathe. But what the hell - it's achance.She takes her hand away and looks at his face.DIAMOND (CONT'D)You want to try it? Sure you do. You're my son. We've waited all our livesfor each other.A STACK OF HAND-WRITTEN NOTEPADSlie on a table in the basement. We track through them - past computerprint-outs and dog-eared journals. We recognize them - these are Will'sdetailed notes.To the table is the makeshift lab - racks of bottles and syringes. In thedim light we see Diamond. She removes the catheter from her vein, turns andclimbs up the flotation tank.INSIDE THE TANKWater sloshes back and forth. Diamond lowers herself in and floats there.For a moment, she stares up at the circle of light spilling through thehatch. We hold on her face.DIAMOND (CONT'D)(softly)So we beat on, boats against the current.She reaches up and pulls the hatch shut. Clang! Darkness.THE SUN AND THE MOONIt's one of those strange twilights when both celestial bodies hang in thesky together. Smoke drifts across them. We tilt down to ape city -A column of smoke and flame spirals out of a stone chimney on top of theslaughterhouse.RED HOT FIREburns in a huge furnace at one end of the slaughterhouse. The ricketyconveyor belt is working, clattering away. Several ape workers throw thebodies of the lab animals - the dead tribes-people - on to the belt.The body of the young boy is carried forward on the belt. It dumps him intothe furnace. The flames engulf him.WILL'S EMPTY CELLThe door hangs open. The space is lit by a dozen torches. Drak is alone,moving around the cell, trying to work out how Will escaped. He looks atthe smashed bed, the hole in the wall, the torn clothing that made theharness.He swings the heavy door on its hinges and touches the lock. No answersthere. Lying in the doorway is the length of wood with the nail in the end.Drak picks it up. He turns it over in his hand, th!nking about it.He jumps! One handed he catches hold of the bars above the door.Effortlessly, he hauls himself up and pokes the wood through the bars. Thenail touches the lock.DRAK(to himself)Clever... you clever fucking animal.DOCTOR ZORA (O.S.)My lord...He turns and sees the doctor hurrying towards him.DOCTOR ZORA (CONT'D)(urgent)Could I see you please?THE HALL OF POWERis a magnificent room - stone columns and towering trees growing in hugepots. At one end is a rock shelf - open to the gathering twilight.Silhouetted against it, commanding a view of the entire city, is theCouncil of Elders. They sit around a table made from bone and tusks, deepin discussion.Nazgul looks up - he sees Drak approaching through the shadows.NAZGULDrak. I was just saying - maybe it's a blessing.DRAKA blessing?NAZGULWhere there's one, there must be others. If we'd killed him, we might neverfind them.MA-GOGBut the animal's not stupid - he knows come day-break we'll be trackinghim. Who's to say he'll run for home?Drak stops in front of them.DRAKNo - he's not stupid. But even dogs hunt in packs of seven. Every animalneeds its kind. And when we find them - what then?MA-GOGWhat do you think?!DRAKJust like the tribes - burn them out of their holes, put them to the sword?I don't mind doing that - I like it - but it's never enough, is it? Nomatter how many we kill, every year they're still here. Why will it be anydifferent with the Blue Eyes? What we need is a final solution.NAZGUL And where do we find that?DRAK (CONT'D)Doctor Zora's brought back patients from a place called Kismatu. I've beentalking to her about it -Several of the Council are looking at each other - perplexed.MA-GOGWhat is Kismatu?NAZGULIt's a tiny colony farther out than even the northern frontier. Females andbabies have been dying there.He turns to Drak - his eyes intense, very interested.NAZGUL (CONT'D)Go on.COOL AND LOVELY ROOMThere are iron barn on I series of high windows but in the middle of theroom is a jungle-gym. Underneath it are ape toys. Five baby apes sit oncots. They must be no more than two or three years old but their faces endbodies are those of old, old apeswizened and wrinkled, frail with age.A double set of bars provide a sort of air-lock. Hanging on them is a sign"Quarantine. No Entry".Drak and the Council of Elders stare in at the children. Doctor Zora iswith them - she's nervous, twisting her fingers.DOCTOR ZORAWe don't know what causes it- a virus probably. I'd hoped to complete ourresearch before I came to you with my proposal. But, given thecircumstances -NAZGUL IIt's a brilliant idea.(turns and smiles at her)Brilliant.HORSES' HOOVESpaw the ground. They're bound with cloth to stop them leaving a trail. It'snight -the horses are tethered near a fire burning in the lee of a rock.Will and Strider have made camp - a hare roasts over the fire. Aragorn sitswell apart - a silhouette in the moonlight - staring out into the forest,lost in his thoughts. Will and Strider look at him.STRIDERHe's their leader - he can never take his eye from the mountain. He has todo what he thinks is right.WILL(hard)By killing them?STRIDERDon't judge him, Will. I couldn't have done it. I wonder if you could? Oneof those women he just killed wes his daughter.Will reacts. He turns and stares at the silhouette. A long beat.WILL(quietly)We call it a Iobotomy. What other things have you people tried?He turns to face him. Strider shrugs. There's something about it -something almost evasive.WILL (CONT'D)Fuck you, Strider! Tell me!He stares at Will - he's never seen him angry.STRIDERdon't know if it's true.., my sister's mate works in the lab. He saysDoctor Zora's working on some disease -Will comes towards him -WILLWhat sort of disease?STRIDEROf the children, I think - ape children.WILLHow did they die, Strider? Old in the belly -is that how?!STRIDERSome of them. You know this disease?Will stares at him, taking it in.WILL(softly)So that's how it happened. Fuck you people.STRIDERThey haven't done it yet. It may not work.WILLThey will and it does.He turns end takes step towards the forest. He runs his fingers through hishair -WILL God help us.STRIDERThat's funny - that's exactly what an ape would say.Will turns. He and Strider stare at one another - the ape and the man, bothstruck by the sudden commonality.STRIDER (CONT'D)I'm sorry...Will walks slowly back to the fire. Strider starts to strip the meat off ahare he's roasting over the flames. He offers it to Will. He shakes hishead - he's not hungry anymore. He stares into the flames -WILLWhat about you, Strider - why were you in the cell?STRIDERI fought another ape. Nothing very heroic, I'm afraid - I was drunk. Hefell badly, his head hit the branch of a tree going down. It broke hisneck.He pauses We're not like humans. An ape never kills one of his own. Never.WILLWhat's the punishment?STRIDERAt the ceremony of summer rites, the high priest would curse me with death.I would have been left to die in the forest -no journey over the waterfall,no-one to say the sacred words. Without that, no ape can walk in the nextworld. You saved my life, Will and I'm grateful. But there's nothing I cando about my soul. I'm a dead ape walking.Strider stripe more meet off the hare. Will picks up a saddle and blanketand starts to make himself bed.STRIDER (CONT'D)You knew, didn't you? You knew the sun was going to swallow the moon.That's why you weren't afraid.Will pauses - then he turns to him.WILLYes - I knew.STRIDERWHO ARE YOU, WILL?WILLI've come a long way, Strider - it's farther then I can explain.STRIDERI've heard stories - old apes tell them 'round the fire late at night - ofstrange lands where the creatures can tell the future. Is that where you'refrom?WILLIn a way.. yeah, it's something like that.STRIDERSo what happens to it afl, to the world we've built? Tell me that.WILLIt passes away.Strider stares at him through the firelight.STRIDERHistory remembers, though - it's passed on, what we did, I mean?WILLNo, Strider - there's nothing, not a trace left behind.Strider thinks for a moment, then he smiles gently.STRIDERSo it's just vanity then - what we believe, that the works of the ape willlast forever?WILLYes, it's vanity. But not just of apes, Strider -maybe of men, too.He turns and settles down on his makeshift bed. Strider - the foodforgotten - stares out into the night. A million stars hang on a velvetsky.Look down from them - in the vast blackness of the forest, one tinylightthe flickering fire.DUST SWIRLING, HOOVES POUNDINGbattalions of ape cavalry sweep out of the stables. Dawn is breaking acrossthe city. Ma-Gog stands on a ridge, his staff raised, blessing the army asit rides out.At its head is Drak. He clatters across the iron and wood bridge and downthe avenue of idols. Votive fires burn in front of every statue.A RAINBOWarches across the end of a tiny gorge. Dozens of streams cascade intopools, spilling over ledges and swirling into ponds. Aragorn leads Will andStrider along a hidden, path - a rock ledge that runs behind thewaterfalls.The ledge widens into a large cave. Sunlight streams through a veil ofcascading water. Aragorn looks around - something's worrying him.ARAGORNThis is the Rainbow Tribe's cave. They should be here.A STONE FIREPLACEAragorn places his hand on the circle of stones, feeling its warmth.ARAGORN (CONT'D)They left at the rising of the sun.He moves deeper into the cave - a maze of limestone caverns andpassage-ways. He stops at sleeping area - weapons lie there, food inbaskets.ARAGORN(softly)Why such hurry?Suddenly he stops, listening. He looks at Strider -ARAGORN (CONT'D)You heard it?Strider nods his head - yes. Will hasn't heard a thing. He listens hard -nothing.ARAGORN (CONT'D)Animal?STRIDERI don't think so.Strider moves silently to the side of the cave. He picks up a crossbow.STRIDER (CONT'D)Is there another entrance?ARAGORNFrom the ridge above. Apes?STRIDERScouts probably.He cocks the crossbow. Aragorn has picks up a bow and spear. He movestowards a cavern, signaling Strider to take a passageway.Will grabs a crossbow. Strider tosses him a chain mail vest - armor. Theymove off.HONEYCOMB OF PASSAGESeep in the cave. A sound - pebbles falling off a ledge. Then we see aflicker of light - a torch is moving through a cavern. Whoever holds it,turns a corner and is lost in darkness.A CROSSROADSof arches and stalactites. Will and Strider split apart. Will movessilently through the darkness, into a cavern. Through an archway he sees ashadow on the wall! He goes fast towards it -A HUGE BOULDERThe shadow comes round the boulder. We tilt down and now we see who'sholding the torchDiamondl She's armed with a crossbow - cocked end loaded.She turns a corner -Ten feet in front of her is Strider. She stares at the massive ape's back -a bandoleer of arrows slung over his shoulder. Her eyes widen with fear.She raises the crossbow -Strider hears it. He spins, weapon rising -turns into a passage midway between them. He sees Diamond about to fire. Hescreams -Too late - she pulls the trigger! Will hurls himself forward - in front ofStrider. Whack! The arrow blasts into his chest. He crashes to the ground.Diamond stares down at him.DIAMONDWill!His eyes open - he's gasping for breath from the impact. He and Diamondlook at one another. Strider reaches down and rips the arrow out of Will'schain mail armor. Diamond's shoulders sag with relief.DIAMOND (CONT'D)(indicates Strider Who's he?WILLI'll explain later.He struggles to his feet and looks at Diamond -WILL (CONT'D)What made you come? I thought the mDNA was just a theory. One of dozens oftheories - isn't that what you said?DIAMONDWe did a lot of work. I guess I was wrong.WILLPeople have been wrong about a lot of things.THE GREAT VALLEYstretches out below - primordial forests and cascading streams. Will andDiamond stand on a rock ledge outside the cave.WILL (CONT'D)This is the rift valley in Kenya -He points at the towering, snow-capped peak.WILL (CONT'D)That's Kilamanjaro - ten thousand feet higher but a hundred thousand yearsof wind and rain will turn it into the mountain we know. Think of it -we've come back a hundred thousand years! Everyone told me it couldn't bedone, but we've crossed the frontier now - Man has traveled through spaceand time. How long has science dreamed of that?DIAMONDHow long have you?WILLAll my life.DIAMONDDream no more. You've done it. Like you said in your note - it was DoctorRobert Plant of UC Berkeley.WILL turns and looks out at the valley -WILL(softly)Yeah - I really have, haven't I?Diamond watches him. There's a shout from inside the cave -STRIDER (O.S.)Aragorn - I've found it!A CAVE PAINTINGNewly-drawn, is hidden in e nook high up in the main cave. Strider, Willand Diamond watch aa Aregorn looks at it by torchlight.ARAGORNI thought they would leave word for their hunters. Kip-Kena has called agathering of the Seven Tribes.WILLWhere?ARAGORNTwo days' travel - at the Eagle's Nest.He looks out through the mouth of the cave - twilight is closing in.ARAGORN (CONT'D)We'll stay hera tonight. Be ready to leave at first light.THE EMBERS OF A FIREburn in the circle of stones. Aragorn and Strider are sleeping next to it.Will and Diamond have been awake all night. They sit in the shadows nearthe entrance to the cave, speaking quietly.DIAMONDAn ape civilization? You said there was a city.., what happened to it all?WILLYou know what we've found of Aragorn's whole race? Seventeen bones, that'sall. Anthropologists have discovered evidence of the apes - we call themskulls. Bones last a lot longer than civilizations.DIAMONDI guess there's a lesson in that.WILLListen, Billie - the apes have discovered a disease.Diamond reacts. Will crouches down - in the dirt he scratches out a smallchain of circles. It's a molecule.WILL (CONT'D)It's really rare and, lucky for them, it's in an isolated area. They're notstupid - they understand it's potential. They plan to give it to the tribes-He draws an arrow from the molecule to a bow-legged stick figure of a man.WILL (CONT'D)And maybe they do, but it doesn't matter -Aragorn's people aren't us.Already evolution's taken another track -scratches a cross through the bow-legged man. He draws the figure of anupright human.WILL (CONT'D)Somewhere in the rift valley is someone like us - the first man.DIAMONDWoman. You said it was in the mitochondrial DNA - it has to be a woman.She reaches forward and scratches long hair on to the figure's head.WILLYou're right. Sooner or later the apes find her. She doesn't look like thetribes but the apes don't care - she's human.So they give her the disease. She's different though - it doesn't work, orat least it doesn't seem to. It gets integrated into her. It's passed on,it mutates, it weaves its way into the mDNA. It lies there - a bomb waitingto go off. And then one day -DIAMONDAfter a hundred thousand years?WILLThe planet's five billion years old. What's that to Nature? A blink of theeye.Will throws the stick down on the ground.WILL (CONT'D)That's the theory, anyway.DIAMOND(impressed)A helluva theory, Doctor Plant.HE TURNS AND LOOKS IT HER -DIAMOND (CONT'D)There's not much time, Will. We have to find her before the apes and wehave to do it within four weeks.WILLJesus, Billie! Four weeks? We've got a theory - that's all. We don't evenknow half the problems we're dealing with. You can't put a deadline onscience.DIAMONDScience, Will? What about people? Isn't that what this is all about. I'msorry - I thought there were children dying.WILLSure. Of course it's about that too.DIAMONDBut then, you don't care muchabout people do you?THEY LOOK AT ONE ANOTHER. A BEAT. WILL'S VOICE IS HARD -WILLNo - I guess I don't. Not for a long time. Ideas and knowledge are whatmatter. They're the shining ideals. That's the only way we progress.DIAMONDProgress to what? We're both children of our age, aren't we? We've grown upto believe the more we know, the more advanced we are. But what does thatmean if we've forgotten the things of real value. You know the reason Icame? It's got nothing to do with science or knowledge. I'm going to have achild -that's why I'm here.They look at one another.DIAMOND (CONT'D)Uke you said, the women's out there somewhere. Why ere we traveling withthem?(indicates Aragore and Strider)We should cut ourselves loose.WILLWe wouldn't last a day. We've got to keep moving, Billie. The apes are likestorm-troopers.DIAMONDWhere are they now?WILLRight behind. I think Strider has some sort of tribal intuition. He says hecan hear their hoof beats in his head.The first rays of dawn pierce the mist from the waterfall. Will and Diamondturn at a sound behind them - Aragorn is getting up.ARAGORNReady?A SPARKLING RIVERwinds through a beautiful valley. The two horses splash along the water'sedge. Strider and Aragorn are mounted on one, Will and Diamond on theother. They turn a curve - Aragorn leads them out of the shallows and intothe forest.THE CAVE OF THE RAINBOWApe soldiers are swarming over the cave. A TRACKER uses torchlight to studyfootprints. He looks up at Orak -TRACKERThere's four of them, my Lord.DRAKFour? The Tracker points It a at of prints -TRACKERIt's woman. Blue Eyes has a mate.DRAKExcellent. I look forward to meeting her.SOLDIER (O.S.)My Lord - hoof prints.Drak turns - the man stands on a path that curves up towards the roof ofthe cave. Drak looks up - high above he sees a slash of daylight. It'sanother entrance.DRAKMalakai! Bolag!Two heavily-armed officers emerge from among the soldiers. With Drak theyrun for the wall. They leap up the rock face - their massive hands grabbingtiny ledges.Other apes follow them. They scramble up the wall with amazing speed.AN EAGLE CIRCLESSoaring and hovering in the sky. We tilt down a tribesman - dressed inskins edged with feathers - is perched high on a jagged peak. He's aLOOKOUT. He tenses -Four figures on foot appear on a path cut into the side of a cliff. TheLookout gives a piercing crythe sound of an eagle. It carries down to -SERIES OF WOODEN PLATFORMSare built into the rocky crags, opening into caves. They are connected byladders and bridges slung across dizzying drops. The inhabitants here livewith their totem -this is the nest of the Tribe of the Eagle.The platforms and caves are crowded with the gathering tribes. People turnat the Lookout's cry. A man pushes through, listening - it's Kip-Kena.THE LOOKOUT POSTKip follows the direction of the Lookout's pointing finger. Will andDiamond lead the other two - all on foot now - along the path.KIPIt's the traveler! With a woman...The Lookout shields his eyes against the sun - the visitors ere comingcloser.LOOKOUTThe fool - he's brought an ape with himl He reaches for a bow but Kip'shand falls on his arm, stopping him.KIPWho's the other one, though?(realizing)Aragorn!He turns, yelling down to the platforms -KIP (CONT'D)It's the Ranger! The Ranger is free!ON THE PLATFORMSThe tribes-people burst into action - running for the bridges, scaling theladders.A WOODEN BRIDGE SWINGS THROUGH THE AIRWhack! It locks into place on the far side of a deep crevasse. It's aprimitive drawbridge. Aragorn steps on to it, leading the others across.The tribes-people are gathering, eager to greet him. Then they see Strider.A ripple of fear and anger runs through them.ARAGORNThe ape travels with me - treat him as a friend.Nobody argues with the Ranger. He stops in front of Kip. The young warriorstarts to bow his head but Aragorn stops him. He puts out his arms - theyembrace.Will crosses the bridge. Kip sees him. He grasps Will's arm in greeting -KIPYou carry part of my spirit with you -I owe you my life. Welcome, Traveler.INSIDE THE EAGLE'S NESTA series of caves, connected by vaulted arches, extend in to the mountain.They're crowded with members of various tribes - children are playing,flint-knappers are fashioning tools, women ara cooking.A shaft of sunlight strikes a ledge high up the wall. Kip and Will havefound a quiet place amid the bustle.WILLAre the seven tribes here?KIPAll except the Antelope. They hunt the plains far to the west - they havethe longest journey.WILLWill they come?KIPWho knows - maybe the apes have found them. Nobody has seen them for manysummers gone. Why?WILLI'm searching for someone - a young woman. She looks like us ...(he indicates Diamond))I thought she might live with the tribes.KIPIs she a relative - was she born to your hearth?WILLTo all of our hearths. My race reveres her. We think of her as the firstwoman. Without her. our lives are nothing.KIP(nodding his head)Women are of the spirit - we believe that. too. Mother Earth mates with thetotems. Only through woman can their children walk the world.WILLHave you seen her?KIPNO.WILLYou're sure? Perhaps some of the women have seen something?KIPShe looks like you, you say? No offense, Traveler, but the women say you'rethe ugliest man they've ever seen. A woman that looks like you - I'm surethey would have talked about it.WILLUgly?They smile at one another.KIPI'm sorry I can't help.A torch flares below. Kip looks down into an adjoining cave. It's emptyexcept for a group of men - all warriors - filing in. These are the leadersof each of the tribes.ANOTHER TORCH IS LITThey ring the walls of the small cave. By their light we see the skins, thefeathers and the symbols of each tribe's totem - the eagle, the tiger, therainbow...Beneath each one squats its leader. One place is empty - the Tribe of theAntelope. Will sits near the entrance. He watches Aragorn - dressed inceremonial robes, the Crescent of Light glistening at his neck - rise tohis feet.ARAGORNWe've traveled without rest - there are soldiers a day behind. The ape saysit's an army.KIPAnd there are more coming from the north. Five squadrons et least, therunners say. It's led by the old warrior Nazgul.ARAGORNIs that why you called the gathering?KIPGreat things are moving, Ranger -An old man, battle-scarred and gray, leans forward. He is the leader of theRainbow.A RAINBOWA stranger walks out of the west, the moon hides the sun, armies are on themarch - come the new moon, nothing in Middle Earth will be the same.Others nod their heads in agreement.KIP (CONT'D)We either fight or flee - the Tribes must decide.ARAGORNI know you, Kip - you always were a fighter. What do the others say?warrior in a feathered cloak speaks -EAGLEIt doesn't matter what we say - the Ranger has returned. We'll followwherever he leads.Aragorn looks at their faces. Slowly he shakes his head -ARAGORNI'll walk the path Mother Earth has laid for me, but I'll walk it no moreas Ranger.The leaders stare at him. Several start to object but he silences them withhis hand -ARAGORNA man leads from his heart and winter has come early to mine.(softly)I took the life of my daughter - and some of your kinfolk with it. I did myduty -nothing more can be asked of I men. But now others must walk in myplace.He walks forward, unfastening the Crescent of Light. He stops in front ofKip -ARAGORNIf I should have had a son, I would have hoped for a man as fine as you.This is my last act as Ranger of the Easterlings-He reaches out and slips the Crescent of Light around Kip's neck.ARAGORN (CONT'D)Take care of my father's people. Guide them well.(he looks at the leaders)You must decide what is best for the Tribes. For me... I was the one thathad to strike the blow, but it was the apes who killed my child. Tomorrow Iwill go to fight them. What father could do any less?He turns away and walks towards the entrance. Only Will sees the tears inhis eyes.KIDS' FACES, WIDE-EYEDThey huddle together - staring at the strange-looking woman and the ape.Strider is building a small fire at the side of the cave, Diamond lays downfurs for sleeping. , She looks up - the leaders are coming out of themeeting. Will approaches.WILLThey're going to war. They leave at dawn.STRIDERThey'll be slaughtered.WILLThey think if they leave the valley, their totems won't follow. Withoutthem, they say they're dead anyway.DIAMONDWe should go now.Will looks at her. She meets his gaze. Suddenly she realizes -DIAMONDOh, nol We're not fighting someone else's war -WILLListen to me -DIAMONDWe've got four weeks, Willl Four weeks to find her. She's not here, so whetare we waiting for? Let's go!The tribes-people turn at the raised voices. Will takes Diamond's arm andguides her to a private corner -WILLListen, Billie! We know the future - but if we beat the apes, they can'tharm the woman.DIAMONDBeat the apes?! And say we don't - or say one of us gets captured. Whatthen? Don't you understand? Four weeksiWILLYeah, I understand - but those things aren't going to happen. We knowthings the apes can't even dream of. This is our world, Billie - men won itwith their minds. All we need is knowledge and science. We've got themboth. We can win!DIAMONDWhat are we going to do - dazzle them with calculus? This is an army, Will- you said it yourself. Storm-trooperstWILLLook -He bends and picks up s rock from the ground. He hands it to Diamond -WILL (CONT'D)Taste it. That's saltpeter - the natural form of potassium nitrate. Thecaves are littered with the stuff. You've smelt the air - there's sulfurall around. If we burn timber, that'Il give us charcoal. You're s scientist- you know what it means.Sure - she knows what it means. She stares at him.DIAMONDIt's strange, isn't it? Give s man s problem and the first thing he thinksabout is weapons.WILLWe're a frail species, Billea. It's only weapons that have made us biggerthan we are.DIAMONDOr smaller.WILLIt's the apes who are going to be a whole lot smaller after this. We canbeat themi No more experiments - no more problem.DIAMOND(quietly)I hope your right, Will.FIRES BURNall over the eagle's nest, turning piles of timber into charcoal. The campis a hive of activitycolumns of tribes-people make their way up from thevalley carrying piles of sulfur rock; women and children sit in circles,pounding the saltpeter into dust. Will moves among the tribal leaders,watching as they measure and combine the elements in bowls.Strider sits apart, watching, not sure if the humans have lost their minds.STRAW MAN FLIES TOWARDS USHe looks like a scarecrow except he's dressed in captured ape armor. Riggedto a flying fox, he speeds past a rock face. All of the tribes-people aregathered on the side of a crevasse, watching.The straw men flies closer - towards a rocky outcrop. Will touches aburning ember to the ground. We see a flash of flame as a fuse ignites butwe lose it among the rocks. A thin trail of smoke marks its passage.The tribes-people watch - nothing seems to be happening. Suddenly - just asthe straw man reaches the outcrop -Ka-boom! A huge explosion. Fire and flying rock hit the straw men.The tribes-people scream. Terrified, they turn and run. Smoke and dustobscure the flying fox. Will walks forward to examine his handiwork.Tribes-people peer out from their hiding places - the smoke and dust clear.They see the tattered shreds of the straw man hanging from the rope.Several of the women start to cry in fear.Will stands on the edge of the crevasse. He turns - Kip, Aragorn and theother leaders are approaching. They look at him with trepidation.KIPYou make fire from rocks of the earth -what is this thing?WILLGunpowder.Kip turns to the others. They repeat the word, as if that will unlock itsmystery.WILL (CONT'D)We've still got work to do.He turns and goes. The tribes-people, emboldened by their leaders, comecloser. They draw back from Will as he makes his way through them. He comesface to face with Strider. The man and the ape look at one another.STRIDERApes believe men are the devil's children. Maybe they're right. What haveyou done, Will - what have you unleashed on the world?WILLNothing, Strider. The future, that's all.STRIDERI can't fight with you tomorrow, Will. To kill an ape in a brawl is onething, but I can't go to war against my people.WILL(kindly)I never expected you to.Again they look at one another. Will turns and leaves.WATER FLYING, HOOVES POUNDINGDrak and his cavalry, pennants flying, gallop along the edge of a river.Ranks of infantry, followed by horse-drawn supply wagons, travel behind.The river swings around a point thick with trees. We crane up above thefoliage - a tributary flows clown the other side. Marching through theshallows is another army of apes. At their head, on a stallion, is Nazgul.The two squadrons converge at the end of the point. The foot soldiers meldtogether, the Praetorian Guard splash ahead, Drak and Nazgul ride side byside. Ahead, the river and its tributary pour over a broad rock ledge. It'sa natural weir -THE FORD OF THE THREE RIVERSA jumble of logs and broken branches lie snagged in the middle of theriver. The Praetorian Guard sweep past them and turn on to the weir.The Guard spur their horses forward, forcing them through the fast-runningcurrent, crossing to the other side -IN THE TREESA shadow of movement. Tribesmen glide through the dappled light of theforest, almost invisible in skins and camouflage.Will and Kip stand motionless, deep in shadow. They watch as the Guard ontheir horses come thundering across the ford, straight towards them. Theinfantry are close behind. Will drops his hand -TRAILS OF FIREwhip along the ground - out of the forest and on to the flattened rocksthat form part of the ford. The Guards' horses shy away. The apes look downin puzzlement -Boom! Boom! Booml Sections of the weir explode in plumes of rock and water.Apes are cut to pieces, horses are hurled into the fast-flowing water.On the far side - Orak's horse rears up. He drives his spurs into itsflanks, trying to control it. Clouds of dust and smoke billow across theweir, the wounded are screaming - the ape cavalry wheel and turn inconfusion.Drak plunges forward - chaos all around him. He pounds his chest with bothfists and roars -DRAKApes - chargelThe apes still on their horses hear his cry. They spur their mountsforward. The first of the cavalry reach -THE SHOREBoom... boom! More explosions rip the river bank to pieces.IN THE FORESTBatteries of cross-bows are mounted on a series of long wooden frames. TheEagle leader and his warriors run from one to the other, touching flames torope fuses. Fire sizzles towards the crossbows, each one loaded with acharge -Bam...bam...bamf The scores of crossbows fire.ON THE FORDThe ape cavalry are plunging through the smoke and debris. Wham! The hailof arrows cut them to pieces.Drak is in the middle of a whirling mass of apes and horses. He looksthrough the smoke - into the forest. He sees Will, standing on a rock withKip, like a general commanding his army.Drak bellows with rage. He snaps the reins, about to drive his horseonward. An arrow flies in from the flank. Whackt It slams into Drak's chestarmor, splintering. He turns -THE JUMBLE OF LOGSfloats in the middle of the river. The leader of the Rainbow Tribe, waterstreaming off of him, kneels on the tangle of trees and branches, reloadinghis bow. This is no jumble of logs - it's a firing platform they'veanchored thereldozen Rainbow warriors, hidden in the water, clamber out of the river. Theykneel next to their leader, drlwing their bows -THE FORDDrak watches es I flight of arrows slam into the milling ranks of apes.Right in front of him, an arrow rips through the throat of the leader ofthe Praetorian Guard. Drak turns to Nazgul, yelling -DRAKThe ones in the river - take themi Nazgul spurs his horse back across theweir.ON THE SHOREApe cavalry and infantry scramble up the river bank. Bam! They hear thecharges go off - the hurl themselves down. Another volley of arrows scythesthrough them -IN THE FORESTThe Eagle leader and his men work feverishly to reload and recharge thebatteries of crossbows. One of the warriors looks up - terror on his face.Drak, followed by the remnants of his Praetorian Guard, charge through theblue haze of gunsmoke - straight towards them.One of the crossbow batteries fires! Arrows hit his horse's armor but Drakdoesn't falter. Crouched Iow in the saddle, he spins the Gatling gun like agunslinger. He locks it under his arm.The eagle warriors start to break and run. The apes' horses sound likethunder rolling closer. The Eagle leader and several of his warriors standtheir ground, desperately working to reload.They spin the battery, sighting straight at Drak's chest. They fire! Arrowsfly -Drak leaps out of the saddle! He catches hold of an overhanging bough. Thearrows whiz underneath, skimming his butt. He leaps again - higher into thetree.The Eagle leader looks up - sunlight sparkles on the leaves. It's dazzling-Smash! Drak's sword cleaves through one of the warriors. Drak has droppedto the ground, right behind them. The Eagle leader turns - too latelRat-a-tat-tat! The Gatling gun fires. Arrows shred the Eagle leader'sfeathered coat. He crumples to the ground like some fallen bird.THE FORDThe ape infantry pour across the ford, charging over the bodies of theirfallen comrades.THE FORESTRiderless horses, part of the ape cavalry, charge wildly through the trees.We tilt up - their riders have abandoned them and taken to the trees. Thebranches are thick with apes firing, cutting down groups of runningtribesmen.THE ROCK PLATFORMWill and several tribesmen hurl camouflage aside revealing a long ironbarrel wedged in the rocks. One of the warriors tilts it up, aiming it atthe trees; another stokes pebbles and scraps of metal into the barrel.Will touches an ember to a fuse. Everyone dives for cover -Boom! The primitive cannon fires. The shrapnel hits the trees. Shreddedapes, branches and leaves fall to the ground.Will and the warriors reload. Again they fire - but the charge is too big.The whole cannon breaks free of the rocks. It flies like a missile andsmashes into the trunk of a tree. Timber!A ROCKY GORGEIts rugged walls are lined with piles of huge boulders. Aragorn and a groupof warriors are fighting hand-to-hand, being forced back by scores of apeinfantry.Aragorn drives his spear at a huge ape. The point plunges into the animal'sbelly, up and under his armor. Blood spurts out from the joins in themetal.IN THE TREESAn ape sharpshooter sights down his crossbow - straight at Aragorn. Hefires -AMONG THE BOULDERSWham! The crossbow bolt smashes into Aragorn's shoulder, sending himreeling. One of the tribesmen turns - it's Kip. He sees Aragorn on hisknees.Kip wields a sword, fighting his way towards Aragorn. Slash! He takes oneape across the chest. Whaml Another ape in the neck. He grabs Aragorn andstarts to drag him out of the melee.IN THE TREESThe ape sharpshooter has Kip in his sights. His finger reaches for thetrigger. He starts to squeeze -Sswhishl The sound of an arrow. Whackl It buries itself in thesharpshooter's neck. He falls out of the tree -HIGH AMONG THE BOULDERSWill. He stands almost at the top of the gorge, lowering a crossbow. Helooks down at Kip's men - the apes, vastly superior in numbers, areswarming forward, driving the tribesmen back.On a ridge below him, four tribesmen scramble away from huge boulder. Aflash of fire then - Ka-bam!ON THEGROUNDApes are rushing forward. They hear the explosion. Several apes turn - thehuge boulder, split into chunks, flies towards them. The apes scatter.Smashl The chunks knock apes aside like skittles.But there's more of them behind, spilling in to the gorge, over-running it-THE DUST FROM THE EXPLOSIONswirls past Drak. He looks up - he sees Will on the ridge, silhouettedagainst the sky.Drak snarls deep in his throat. He wheels his horse and gallops hardtowards a trail that winds up among the boulders.ON THE RIDGEWill moves fast along the top of the ridge. He stops - looking down on theriver. On the other side, Nazgul and a platoon of apes unload huge leatherbladders from the wagons and empty them into the river.Will shades hil ayes - the water glistens with iridescent colors. Herealizes - it's oil.The current carries it straight towards the platform in the river. Thewarriors of the Rainbow tribe - unaware - are still aboard, firing at theapes on the ford.Will turns fait - wa whip pan along the shoreline. He sees what he feared -two apes below him with a fire burning. They slot flaming arrows into theircrossbows -Will unslings his crossbow, steadies himself and fires -Ks-whack! The arrow rips through one ape's neck. He pitches forward -heed-first into the fire. The other ape hurls himself aside, diving forcover.Will re-loads. The side of the ape's head is just visible behind a rock. IfWill makes this, it's going to be a helluva shot.His finger curls around the trigger - right behind him, the sound ofhooves. Will spinsit's Drak charging towards him. He raises the Gatling gun -Will aims at the big ape's throat and fires.Drak swerves. The arrow misses his throat but slams into his exposedforearm. The Gatling gun flies from his hand.There's no time for Will to re-load - he turns and runs.Drak charges down on him. He draws a harpoon out of its scabbard.Will scrambles over a crest - nothing but thin air!Drak has him square in his sights. He draws back his arm, about to hurl theharpoon. Will throws himself forward -THE SIDE OF A CLIFFWill falls down, down, down.Drak reins his horse to a halt right at the edge. He looks over - Willplunges towards the river, flowing fast below the ford.Splash! Will cannonballs into the water and disappears. Drak stares down,trying to catch sight of him. Nothing.IN THE RIVERA tree branch and other flotsam is being carried downstream by the current.A pair of hands emerge from the water and grab hold of it. Will's headfollows.Gasping, catching his breath, he looks upstream - the water pours over theweir. A flaming arrow arcs through the air. The ape on the shore has donehis job -THE OIL SLICKerupts in flames as the arrow hits it. The whole surface of the river issuddenly transformed into a raging blaze.The Rainbow leader and his men turn. They see a wall of flame racingtowards them. Several warriors dive into the water, swimming for the shore-Whoosh! The flames engulf them. A wall of fire sweeps over the woodenplatform. Like macabre shadows - we see the dancing shapes of the dyingwarriors.IN THE RIVERThe current pulls Will down the river. He looks back - the molten firespills over the weir. Anguished screams are carried on the wind. A pillarof black, oily smoke rises up high into the sky -THE EAGLES' NESTThe platforms and rocky outcrops are crowded with the women, children andold folks. Diamond and Strider stand together. All of them stare down atthe river valley. The pillar of smoke rises higher.WOMAN (O.S.)They're here!Diamond turns - the woman is standing on the highest platform. Diamondfollows the direction of her outstretched arm.A group of warriors, followed by their women-folk and children, are cominground the mountain path. Their leader wears a golden fur and a head-dressof auroch's horns. It's the Tribe of the Antelope.OUTSIDE THE MAIN CAVEA chorus of chattering voices. The new arrivals are surrounded by membersof their sister tribes. The leader of the Antelope stands in the center,listening to a woman -Kip's wife. Whatever she's saying is lost in thehubbub.ANTELOPEQuiet!Instantly, the voices die.ANTELOPE (CONT'D)(anxious)Where?Kip's wife doesn't answer - she walks forward and points to the pillar ofsmoke. The Antelope leader turns to his warriors.ANTELOPE (CONT'D)We go - now!DIAMOND AND STRIDERstand on the platform, watching several old men lower the drawbridge.Whack! It locks into place. The antelope warriors cross it and disappeardown a narrow trail.The rest of the Antelope tribe move towards the cave. Diamond turns away -then she stops. Something has caught her eye. She stares at the crowd ofwomen and children heading into the cave.STRIDERWhat is it?Diamond doesn't answer - she tenses. In the milling crowd of brown bodies,she sees it again - a flash of gold. It*s sunlight on blonde hair.DIAMONDShe's here.., holy God - she's herel It's not a woman - it's a child!She grabs a rope ladder, ignores the rungs and slithers down it.A YOUNG GIRLhelps her mother set up camp. She is about 10 years old, tawny-haired,taller and straighter-backed'than any of her people. She looks like us.Diamond pushes through the women and kids gathered around the hearth. Shestops. The young girl turns. For a moment she and Diamond stare at oneanother, separated by a hundred thousand years, but so similar they canboth see themselves in the other.THE YOUNG GIRL SMILES. DIAMOND RETURNS IT -DIAMONDWhat's your name?The girl's mother stares, amazed to see someone who looks like her child.MOTHERHer name is Aiv.DIAMONDEv?(Realizing)Of course. My people have a name like that - "Eve" is how we say it.The mother nods - the sound seems to please her. Diamond puts out her armsand indicates the young girl. The mother smiles, giving her permission.Diamond puts her arms around Eve.DIAMOND (CONT'D)(softly)I've come a long way to find you.Eve looks at her - wide-eyed, innocent.EVEWhy?DIAMONDTo keep you safe.She holds her tight. The mother catches Diamond's eye.MOTHERDo you have children?Diamond shakes her head - no. The mother can't hide her disappointment.DIAMONDWhat's wrong?MOTHERI was hoping you had a son. Aiv's a sweet girl. She's the child of myheart. But the way she looks, nobody will want her as a mate.Before Diamond can answer there's a commotion outside the cave. She turnsto look - Strider and tribes-people are running out into the daylight.SWIRLS OF DUSTrise up from I mountain path. Whatever's causing it is hidden from view bythe peaks and crags. The tribal-people gather on vantage points, watchingit come closer. Strider cocks his head - listening. A shadow of fear passesacross his face.STRIDERHorses! It's horses!Horses mean apesi Panic sweeps through the tribes-people. Women grab theirchildren, young kids start screaming, old men and boys scramble forweapons.Diamond weaves through the flying mass of people. She swings up on to aplatform beside Strider. He points -Coming into view on the mountain path - running and stumbling, draggingtheir wounded - are what's left of the Antelope warriors.Their women-folk cry out as they realize what has happened to their mates.The warriors race along the path and across the drawbridge. Nobody raisedit when they left -Several old men and a couple of boys struggle now to do it. They haul onthe ropes and pulleys. It starts to swing upwards -Here he comes - Drak! He's galloping hard at the head of his cavalry,battle scarred and bloodied. He sees the drawbridge starting to lift. Hedoesn't pause - he whips his horse into a thundering gallop.The bridge rises higher. Drak's horse leaps! It soars across the crevasse -the giddylng drop stretches out below - and lands on the lifting bridge.The men and boys stare in horror. Orak charges down on them. They back away-all except one boy, not even in his teens, who stands his ground.Swish! Drak's sword cleaves him from shoulder to waist. The other tribesmenrun. Wham! The drawbridge falls back into place. The ape cavalry chargeacross it.BROAD WOODEN PLATFORMAn ape horseman flies across the platform. He leaps off the edge, on to alower platform. Diamond's right in front of him!She throws herself aside, grabs hold of a rope ladder and drops onto -A ROCK SHELFShe looks across the broad area in front of the cave - apes everywhere,weapons flashing, people screaming.A young boy tries to out-run an ape warrior - it's Gray Beard. The youngboy hasn't got a chance. Gray Beard lashes out at him with a stock-whip.It curls around the boy's ankle, tripping him. The boy looks up - he triesto shield his face. Too late! The horse's hooves smash down -Diamond looks away, unable to watch. She sees Eve. The young girl is at thefront of the cave, spinning in panic. Her mother runs towards her...The mother doesn't see Gray Beard galloping towards her. Diamond screams awarning but it's just one more crv in the commotion.Gray Beard raises a short-handled lance and hurls it like a javelin. Ithits the mother in the small of the back, straight through the spine. Shepitches forward - dead. Eve screams and runs towards her mother.Diamond leaps off the rock ledge -IN FRONT OF THE CAVEDiamond runs faster than she's ever run, sprinting to grab Eva. Drak wheelshis horse - he sees Diamond. His lip curls back and he smiles - one of theBlue Eyes! And a woman! He leaps his horse forward -DRAKGrab the female!Gray Beard is off his horse. Diamond runs towards him. He raises acrossbow...Drak charges down on her from behind. He holds the harpoon at his shoulder.He aims at her legs.Diamond races on - her only thought, to save Eve. It'll never happen -she's as good as deadGray Beard's in front, aiming. Drak's right behind. Hehurls the harpoon.Whoosh! Strider swings through the air. He clings to one of the ropeladders - it's like Tarzan, except he's an ape. He grabs Diamond by thescruff of the neck and yanks her out of the way.Drak's harpoon skims past them. Gray Beard stares in amazement at the womanflying through the air. But that's not his big surprise - with Diamond outof the way, the harpoon is flying straight at him. He screams as it ripsinto his throat.HIGH ROCK LEDGEStrider - Diamond clutched under his arm - lands on a ledge high above thefight. Diamond turns fast and looks back -IN FRONT OF THE CAVEEve crouches over the body of her mother. The woman's mouth is frozen in ananguished scream, her dead eyes stare straight ahead. Eva shakes her,desperately hoping for some sign of life. Nothing. Eve starts to cry.A dark shadow falls across her. She looks up - it's Drak. He reaches downand grabs her by the neck. He beats his chest with his fist and raises herup above his head like a trophy.ON THE ROCK LEDGEDiamond, anguished, tries to go to the little girl but Strider holds her inan iron grip. He swings Diamond off her feet, and leaps for an overhangingbranch of a tree. He jumpsfrom the tree to a jagged peak and vanishes fromsight.CHARRED AND SMOKING WRECKAGEfloats at the shore of the river. It is what remains of the firing platform- the bodies of several of the Rainbow warriors still on board.Smoke curls away from the platform and drifts through the forest. The onlysound is the whinnying of a horse - it has a broken leg. Again and again ittries to get to its feet.A solitary figure makes his way through the shadows. It's Will, soaking wetfrom the river. He stops at the entrance to the rocky gorge and looks atthe carnage all around him. So much for knowledge and science. This iswhere the warriors of the tribes made their last stand - their bodies liehuddled together in a jumble.Will stares at them, anguish on his face.WILL(softly, to himself)I was so sure...He kneels and turns one of the bodies over. It's Kip - speared through thechest. A shaft of sunlight hits the Crescent of Light. It glints on hislifeless throat. Gently, he closes Kip's glassy eyes.sound behind him. Will hurls himself aside, grabbing for a weapon. He looksup -it's the Lookout, battle-stained and weary. Their eyes meet -LOOKOUT(quietly)You said we'd win.Will just nods - he knows.LOOKOUT (CONT'D)You gave us hope - that was the cruelest thing.The Lookout kneels and crosses Kip's hands across his chest. He reachesdown and removes the Crescent of Light. He turns to Will -LOOKOUT (CONT'D)Get the weapons you need. The apes'Il be coming back for their dead. Hurry!Will arms himself with crossbows and arrows from the bodies.CLOUDS OF SMOKErise into the sky - the eagle's nest is on fire. Drak and his apes maketheir way along a narrow mountain trail - they've put the humans' camp tothe torch.With them is a long line of prisonerswomen and children mostly, many ofthem in tears. They carry long poles over which are slung their dead anddying. We crane, up to -HUGE ROCK OVERHANGhigh up the mountain-side. Standing underneath it, hidden in shadow, areDiamond and Strider. They look down on the mountain trail. Diamond seesEve.THE MOUNTAIN TRAILThe young girl stumbles along the road, tied by a length of chain to Drak'ssaddle. She's bruised and bleeding, her ankles shackled, barely able towalk.THE ROCK OVERHANGDiamond looks at her, close to tears, but there's nothing she can do. Shewatches the convoy wind along the trail.Boomi The fire must have hit a store of gunpowder - an explosion ripsthrough the eagle's nest, blowing out the side of one of the peaks. Diamondwatches the dust climb into the sky. All her hopes seem to be going withit.IN THE RIVERIt's twilight. Will and the Lookout are wading around a knob of land thatprotects one end of a tiny beach.Will sees a fire burning on the sand, a cave opening off the beach, pilesof stones like burial mounds.WILLWhat is this place?LOOKOUTIt's called the Crossroads of the Fallen King - it's where our forefathersare laid to rest. It's sacred to us - anyone who's still alive will maketheir way here.They wade closer to the beach. In the firelight they see groups oftribesmen -survivors of the battle. Women and children - the lucky few whomanaged to flee the eagle's nest - are binding the warriors' wounds.They look up - everyone falls silent at the sight of Will. As he comescloser he recognizes a woman, sitting alone -WILLIt's Kip's wife. She's come fromTHE EAGLE'S NEST -He goes towards her, passing the other tribes-people. Nobody greets him.They just watch him pass. He stops in front of Kip's wife. Her eyes are redfrom crying.WILLrm sorry about your mate.She says nothing - she just stares at him. Will keeps going -WILL (CONT'D)I've been to the eagle's nest. I was looking for the woman I was with. Wesearched but...(he pauses)What happened - was she captured?KIP'S WIFEI threw myself off a platform. I don't know what happened to anyone.Will nods. He gets to his feet and moves to the women near the fire. Wedon't hear what he says, but we know what he is asking. One after anotherthey shake their heads - no, they know nothing of Diamond.SHAFT OF MOONLIGHTshimmers on the water. Will sits on a rock that straggles into the water.His face is grim, his heart heavy with grief. He's making something withhis hands - twisting and turning them - but in the dim light we can't seewhat it is.INSIDE THE CAVEA shaft of moonlight falls on a semi-circle of rock slabs standing on theirend - it's like Stonehenge. The surviving tribes-people are gathered intheir shadow.OLD MANIt's half a day since the battle. Any that survived would be here by now -we are all that remains of the Seven Tribes. The Ranger himself died on thefield. We must decide ourselves what to do.Silence for a moment. They have spent too long following a leader fordiscussion to come easily. Finally, a wounded warrior speaks -WOUNDED WARRIORLike you say, Kip is dead. Maybe it's a sign -the Rangers have left MiddleEarth forever. Perhaps it's telling us to do the same.A young woman - probably in her 20s - shakes her head.YOUNG WOMANLeave the valley? This is where the eagles fly. This is their home. Nobodycan live without their totem - we all know that!LOOKOUTNobody can live with the apes eitherl If we stay here, we die. But if wetravel beyond the Tower of the Moon, we've got a chance. Who knows - maybeour totems will follow us?There's a murmur of agreement. It grows louder, tribes-people nodding theirheads.THE BEACHNow we see what Will has been making - it's a boat made out of twigs andleaves. A tiny hull and a gaff-rigged mast. He leans forward and drops itin the water. He watches the current carry it away. Farther and farther itbobs out into the river -WILL(softly)I'm sorry, Billie. I should have listened - it wasn't our war. All youwanted was a baby...He can't go on. He watches the tiny boat disappear around the knob of land.IN THE RIVERThe current carries the boat past a jagged boulder. An ape's hand reachesout and picks it up. He lifts it up to look more closely. We see his face -it's Strider. He turns the toy over in his hand, looking at it quizzically.He hands it to Diamond, wading along behind him -STRIDERIt looks like someone made it.DIAMONDIt's a boat - it's gaff-rigged.(realizing)Oh, Jesus...She plunges forward, wading as fast as she can.DIAMOND (CONT'D)Will!ON THE BEACHWill is walking up the beach. He stops, listening. He hears it again -hisname! He turns and heads towards the river. He sees Diamond coming roundthe headland, splashing through the water.Will stops. They look at one another - then they both move forward, armsstretching out. They wrap their arms around each other.WILL(softly)I thought I'd lost you.DIAMONDI thought you were dead.They keep holding each other.WILLHow did you find this place?DIAMONDStrider. His father was a tracker. We've been following a trail for hours.Will looks over her shoulder - Strider is wading towards them.DIAMOND (CONT'D)He saved my life, Will.Will goes to greet him. The man and the ape embrace.WILLThank you, my friend - thank you.STRIDERWhat did you expect? You would have done the same for me.SHOWER OF SPARKSas Will puts a log on the fire. From inside the cave we hear the murmur ofvoices as the argument goes back and forth.Both Diamond and Strider are wrapped in furs - their clothes are laid outnext to the fire, drying. Will speaks to Diamond -WILLSome times when we want something so bad, we can take a thing and twist itin our head. You're sure about this, Billie?DIAMONDI'm pregnant, Will - I'm not crazy. She's not like them - she's a mutation.Evolution's always trying to improve on itself. It's turned out a childthat can walk taller and run faster, one whose brain-pan holds a mind thatcan think laterally. I've seen her, Will. I've held her in my arms - shewas us.Will looks at her. There's no doubt - he believes her.WILLYou said she was with Drak.DIAMONDOn a chain.WILLIt's two days' march to the city. Was she wounded - can she make it?DIAMONDShe can make it.(a beat - she looks at him)Will?Before he can answer, the Old Man and several others come down the beach -OLD MANIt's decided - we're leaving the valley forever.(turns to Strider)Your people have won - the Seven Tribes of Middle Earth have been broken.Long may their spirits haunt you(he turns back to Will)You and your mate can travel with u but we've got misery enough to carry.Our hearth is not home to ny ape.WILLThen it's not home to us. The ape's better than any man I've known.The Old Man's lip curls in a sneer. He shrugs and walks away.STRIDERGo with them. Will - everyone needs their own kind.Will and Diamond newer almost simultaneously -WILLNo!DIAMONDOf course we can't...(to Will)The city, Will.Will and Strider turn nd look at her - incredulous.WILLWe call it a city - it's more like a fortress, Billie. It can't be done.DIAMONDThe three of you got out - everyone thought that was impossible too.WILLWe were lucky. But that's the trouble with luck - it runs out. I don't wantto be back in the city when it does.DIAMONDWhat about Eve - what do we do, just forget about her?WILLNo. Maybe we can't stop the apes giving her the disease - but they'll haveto turn her loose. That's the only way she can infect others. So we lay aplan and we find her. Then it's our job to stop her having children. If wecan do that, it can't be passed on through the race.She shrugs That's the only thing I can think of.DIAMONDHow long will that take - less than twenty-five days ?WILLNo.DIAMOND So what of my child?We have to face it - you're going to lose it.She turns away, trying to keep her emotions in check. Will comes to herside -WILL (CONT'D)We can't take our eye off the goal. If we solve this, you can have otherchildren. Not if wa throw our lives away, though.DIAMONDWhose, Will - whose children?She looks at him. He meets her gaze. A beat.WILLguess that's your call.DIAMONDWhat sort of father would you make? You told me once the only thing thatmatters is knowledge. That's wrong. Science and technology can only takeyou so far - in the end it's our humanity that maners. That's what makes usgreat. You're a wonderful scientist, Will -but what sort of person are you?What would you do if it was your child?She looks straight into his eyes. Finally he answers. Softly -WILLI don't know how to do it - not the humanity part, that's easy compared togetting into the city. I just don't know...He picks up a stick and starts to scratch out a rough map on the ground.WILL (CONT'D)It sits on a river. There's only one bridge -heavily guarded. Even if wecould cross it, all the ridges and roads are patrolled -STRIDERThere's one place that's not.Both Diamond and Will turn to him. He takes the stick -STRIDER (CONT'D)Down here - it's called Funeral Rock. It sits at the bottom of the temple.From there you can make your way into the city. Even so, you still have tocross the river.He draws an arrow across the water, illustrating the problem. Diamond isabout to speak but she looks at Will - he's staring at the arrow, an idea,half formed, is starting to form.WILLMaybe there is a way...across the river, I mean.DIAMONDHow?Will turns to her -WILLYou'll love it - there's barely any science to it at all.DIAMONDWe're going? Is that right - we're going!?Their eyes meet and hold. He smiles at her.THREE SILHOUETTEStravel fast along a high ridge. The sun - a fiery disc - rises right behindthem. We recognize their physiques - Will in the lead, then Diamond andStrider. As they cross the face of the sun, we dissolve to -LIGHTS TWINKLEon the buildings and terraces of the apes' city. Will and his two comradesare on a bluff, looking down. The sound of music and laughter driftstowards them on the night air. Suddenly a huge tongue of flame shoots outof a stone chimney.STRIDERThey've started up the furnace.(softly)Let the games begin.DIAMONDWhat games?WILLThe apes kill their prisoners for sport. The furnace takes care of thebodies.Diamond - sickened by it - turns to look at Will. Already he's heading off,leading them down nrrow trail.A HIDDEN LEDGEmuch closer to the city. Will and the others move fast along it, deep inthe shadows. The river thunders by below them, separating them from thecity. The only way across is the massive iron and wood bridge. Ape guardspatrol it.Only Diamond pauses to look et it. Will and Strider urge her forward. Itdisappears from view.A STEEL ARROWflies through the air. Tied to its shaft, trailing out behind, is a ropemade from vines. Will lowers a crossbow. He watches the arrow fly throughthe mist and spray -THE RIVERraces by just below and pours over the Falls of No Return. Whack! The arrowburies itself in the trunk of a massive tree standing on the bank.ON THE OTHER SHOREWill and Strider haul the rope taut and tie it round a tree. It stretchesfrom one side of the river to the other. All it has to do is hold. Willturns to Diamond. He shouts to be heard over the roar of the falls -WILLYou first. We'll be right behind.Diamond scrambles up on to a rock platform and grabs hold of the rope. Shelooks across the riverthe moonlight spills through the wind-blown spray;the roaring water rushes by; the rope hangs like a thread. There's fear onher face -WILL (CONT'D)You ready?DIAMONDIt sure as shit ain't Kansas, is it?WILLGo!Diamond throws herself forward. Her feet leave the platform. Hand over handshe goes - out across the river.Will watchel for a moment then launches himself - his hands wrap around therope.Strider slings his crossbow over his shoulder and jumps. The line bowsunder his weight. Diamond'l feet drop closer to the water. She looks down -the mass of black water, flecked with foam, rushes past.Will looks ahead - Diamond is almost lost in flurries of spray. She'sdripping wet, hauling herself forward -The sound of the Falls is deafening. Right below her, a huge, swirling"hole" opens up. It's a whirlpool. She starts to swing across it. JoltlTHE TREE TRUNKThe arrow pulls part way out of the tree. The steel shaft shivers but itholds. Everything seems okay. Suddenly -Snap! One of the strands of the vine breaks -ON THE ROPEEverything bucks and shudders. Diamond screams. She looks down - straightinto the vortex of the whirlpool. Her blood runs cold - she freezes.WILL SEES HER HANGING MOTIONLESS ON THE ROPE. HE SCREAMS AT HER -WILLGo! Billie - go!She doesn't seem to hear. Her eyes are wide with fear - staring down, downinto the whirlpool's bottomless well.WILL, TRYING TO GET TO HER, HURLS HIMSELF FORWARD. THE ROPE STRAINS ANDBOWS -WILLMove!She doesn't react. Strider watches as Will tries to catch up. The rope isswaying so much it's agonizingly slow.Diamond stares at a huge log spinning down into nothingness. The whirlpoolseems to be swallowing everything, even the moonlight -WILL (CONT'D)Billiai What about the baby?!The word hits her. She pulls her eyes from the swirling death. She looks atWill.WILL (CONT'D)Move, Billiel NowlShe understands. She starts to pull herself forward. Will slumps withrelief -ON THE SHOREThe arrow moves another inch out of the trunk. The rope fixed to its shaftis strained to breaking point. But still everything holds...THE IRON AND WOOD BRIDGEOne of the guards patrols the bridge. Out of the corner of his eye - flashof something. He looks towards the Falls.GUARD(calling)Gimla.The other guard joins him. They peer through the night at the spray risingfrom the Falls. They see it again - above the river, a flash of light onmetal.The keep watching. An eddy of wind clears the mist for a second. They seeStrider going hand over hand along the rope, moonlight glinting on hiscrossbow.ON THE SHOREAnother strand of the rope breaks. We follow it as it unravels - pastDiamond and Will. Before we get to Strider it stops - a section of the ropeis so badly frayed it can't go any farther. It's going to break any moment.Screech! A siren wails.STRIDERThey've seen usl Will looks up-river to the bridge. Through a hole in themist he sees ape guards pointing and yelling. A whole squadron runs to jointhem.Diamond throws herself forward - she makes the shorelWill and Strider give it everything they've got. Strider's first handpasses the frayed section. He's following it with his second -Snap! The whole rope breaks. Will - closest to the shore - plunges into theripping current. But at leaIt he's clinging to the rope with both hands.Strider's in the water hanging on to the end of the rope by the fingers ofone paw. Will turns and reaches for him.STRIDER (CONT'D)No! Save yourselflON THE SHOREDiamond has grabbed hold of the rope and is trying to pull it in. Theweight - of the men and the current - make it impossible. All she can do istry and hold them.ON THE ROPEStrider's fingers are slipping free. Will grabs him - man and ape, hand topaw. Will holds him.STRIDERWe'll both die. Let gol Will shakes his head - no. Hanging on to the ropeone-handed, the current tearing at his body, he tries to haul Strider in.Whizz! An arrow flies past, just missing them, and plunges into the water.The apes on the bridge are firing.STRIDER (CONT'D)Another minute, we'll both be dead. Do it, WilllWill tries again to drag Strider to the rope. Another arrow flies throughthe mist and spray - even closer. Strider reaches out with his free hand.He starts to prize Will's fingers loose -STRIDER (CONT'D)If nothing else, I made it to the Falls No Return.Will realizes - nothing is going to stop Strider.WILLThe sacred words, Strider - what are the words?!STRIDER"In the beginning...WILL'In the beginning was the word and the word wes God...'STRIDER(in wonder)You know the words?WILLYou'll walk in the next world, Strider.STRIDERHow do you know?WILLI've seen the future, haven't I?Strider smiles at him - a smile of perfect peace.STRIDERGood-bye Will. Take care of Billie.He twists Will's last finger free. He drops - the swirling river carrieshim away. Will is close to tears, but he won't let himself cry. Two morearrows sizzle past -WILLAnd the word was God. Yea, though I walk through the valley of death, Iwill fear no evil...Strider spins down the river, through the spray and foam.WILL (O.S.) (CONT'D)Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life and Iwill dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Amen.Strider, one arm raised, plunges over the Falls.ON THE BRIDGEWe see who's been coordinating the firing. It's Drak. Archers are kneelingon the bridge, trying to sight a target through the foaming water andclouds of mist.Drak, never taking his eyes off of the river, draws back the massive springof his crossbow and reloads.ON THE SHOREDiamond ia hauling on the rope, pulling it in. Will, up to his neck inwater, tows himself along it. His feet find a footing - he starts toscramble up the bank. Diamond goes towards him -Just for a moment, the mist clears.ON THE BRIDGEmoment's long enough. Drak's seen him. In one fluid movement he adjusts hisaim and fires -ON THE SHOREDiamond is almost in Will's arms. Sswhack! The arrow rips into WiU's back,through his ribs. He pitches forward. Diamond screams. He falls into herarms.The mist closes around them.HUGE STONE ARCHThe survivors of the Seven Tribes travel fast along a forest trail. All ofthem are burdened down with possessions, weary from the road - they areleaving the valley.Kip's Wife and the Old Man are in the lead. They pass through the arch, outinto a clearing. In the middle of it is a fire, shadows camped around it -Kip's wife and the other survivors stop in fear. One of the shadows risesfrom the. fire. Bathed in moonlight - almost ghost-like - he comes towardsthem. It's Aragorn!Kip's wife moves forward and embraces him -KIP'S WIFEWe thought you were dead.ARAGORNHunted, but not dead. A dozen of us were driven back in the battle -He indicates his men. They are coming forward, greeting the survivors. TheYoung Woman sees her mate - she cries out. They hold each other.ARAGORN (CONT'D)For three days a squadron of apes have tracked us. Last night we ambushedthem. We're heading now for the eagle's nest.KIP'S WIFE(softly)There is no eagle's nest.Aragorn stares at her, not wanting to believe it.KIP'S WIFE (CONT'D)We're all that's left of the Seven Tribes.Grief wells up inside Aragorn. We hold on his face.A FIRE CRACKLESAll of the tribes-people are gathered around it.OLD MANThere is no-one else, Aragorn - you are the Ranger.ARAGORN(shaking his head)No. We must all follow the trail we think best. You've decided yours. Forme * I'll go to the city of the apes and take what revenge I can. I'll goalone - but like the traveler, I think death will be the only thing I findthere.OLD MANThen it will find us, too. Warriors follow their Ranger. That's always beenthe way of it in Middle Earth.ARAGORNBut nothing's the same now. Think of the women-folk. What will become ofthem?KIP'S WIFEYou're right - there's so few of us now, nothing is the same. You mustallow the women to follow, too.ARAGORN But women can't fight.KIP'S WIFE Women have never been allowed to fight. That doesn't mean theycan't.All the women nod their assent. The men smile, agreeing. Everyone waits forAragorn to decide. A beat - then he nods his head and smiles.The tribes-people start to cheer. The Lookout steps forward. From out ofthe folds of his fur, he takes the Crescent of Light. All of the tribestare at it.LOOKOUTI found it on the battlefield. There were those who said the Rangers hadleft Middle Earth forever - I didn't know what to do with it.He hands it to Aragorn. The whole tribe watches as the proud man once againties the talisman of his rank around his neck.ARAGORNDouse the fire. The Seven Tribes are going to war.ON THE SHOREThe apes, carrying torches, search the river bank and surrounding cliffs.We push in on a pool of darkness behind them -Will and Diamond hide in a hollow beneath the tangled roots of a huge tree.They have done their best to dress Will's wound but he's obviously in a lotof pain -DIAMONDYou can't go on, Will - not like this.WILLWhat about the baby?DIAMONDI'll keep going - I'll try and get Eve.WILLAlone? Don't be ridiculous -He starts to haul himself to his feet. His face twists in pain - he has tostop.DIAMONDLook at you - you can barely walk.He puts out his hand, needing I boost up.WILLIf I can just get up - help me.Diamond shakes her head - no. They look at one another.WILL (CONT'D)Don't do this to me - pleaselDIAMONDYou've done enough - more than anyone else could. You're one of the finestmenI've ever known - but it's over, Will. You're going to have to wait. Nowit's my turn -She grabs her weapons and starts to leave. Will makes it to his feet -WILLBillie!She's almost through the tangled roots.WILL (CONT'D)I made a mistake once - I went on a journey with someone I loved. At theend, I let her go into danger alone.Diamond stops.DIAMONDWhere was that - Berkeley, Will?She turns and looks at him. He nods his head - yes.DIAMOND (CONT'D)What happened?WILLI knew I'd found the chemical key. I was working with three youngresearchers. One of them was a woman called Ali Conoily. We were engaged.They were the ones that went into the tanks. I didn't know as much as Ithought I did. They died in there.DIAMONDWhy didn't you go, Will?WILLWe all wanted to. It was a great adventure. Wa drew lots for it. I shouldnever have agreed, but we were young - and like the young we thought lifewould last forever.DIAMONDRobert Plant died too, didn't he - in a way?WILLThe experiment was unauthorized. There was an inquiry. They said the theoryhad no basis. 'Ludicrous" was a word they used. My career had gone up likea rocket. It came down like the stick. I couldn't find work anywhereDIAMOND"Will Robinson" - that was your joke, I guess. You were Lost in Space, wereyou?WILLYeah, but I never realized it'd be so appropriate.They sort of smile at one another.WILL (CONT'D)had twenty years to work out where my research went wrong - so what,though. It was just a mind game. But I've learnt a lot of things - the mostimportant is that sometimes you get a second chance. A second chance for alot of things -He looks straight at her. They hold each other's eyes.WILL (CONT'D)And when you do, you have to grab it and make sure you never let it go.I've got the heart, Billie. It's my body that's failing me.Neither one of them moves. A beat.DIAMONDGive me your hand, Will.She helps him to his feet.A GIANT CHASMIt's several hours before dawn. In the gloom - whooshl Kip's Wife rides aflying fox across a precipitous drop.She lands on the other side of a jagged ravine. The rest of the tribe, allheavily armed, are waiting there. They turn end run, fading into the trees.THE FUNERAL ROCKjuts out into the roaring river. Will and Diamond scramble out of thedarkness and land on the rock. Will's face is haggard with pain but heforces himself forward. He's loosening up. going faster as he moves -They pass through the huge legs of the stone ape - into the Temple.A DARKENED ROOMTorches flicker on the walls. From somewhere close-by - muffled - we hearthe sound of a crowd. A young ape, barely in his teens, stands in themiddle of the room, almost naked. His face is painted with strange ochremarkings.A circle of ape warriors watch as Ma-Gog lifts a slender blade. Intoningwords in some strange tongue, he slices the blade across the Teenager'sforehead. The Teenager winces but he doesn't cry out - this is his manhoodceremony.THE STABLESThe sound of the crowd is much louder here but still we don't see them. Theprisoners from the Eagle's Nest are crowded into the corrals.One of the gates is thrown open. Three ape guards enter. They push thetribes-people aside and grab a 12-year old boy. His mother clings to him,screaming. One of the guards drags her off and they haul the boy out of thecorral.AN ARENA-like a small bullring - in the center of the stables. Now we see the crowd- apes, all males, sit in the bleachers. They roar as a door is opened andthe young Tribe-Boy is pushed into the ring.He looks around the arena - yelling, screaming apes. Terror on his face. Aneven louder roar goes up. The Boy turns -The Teenage ape steps out of a tunnel, the ochre markings on his face likewar-paint, the blood barely dried on his forehead. He carries spears and aclub.One of the apes throws a couple of captured human weapons down to the Boy.The Teenage ape moves in on him. He is a warrior now - this is going to behis first kill.IN THE CORRALThe Boy's mother is huddled down, being comforted by other tribes-people. Ahuge roar goes up from the arena as the first blow is struck. The soundcarries over to -A TERRACEDrak is alone, walking a high ridge. He stops, looking down on thetwinkling lights. The city is virtually deserted but Drak doesn't move -he's uneasy, troubled by something he can't put a name to.THE COOL AND LOVELY ROOMThe five baby apes sit on cots. They watch as Doctor Zora inserts a syringeinto the smallest ape's arm. The baby starts to cry. Doctor Zora comfortsher as she draws out a cup of blood. She turns to her assistant, Ben-GuriDOCTOR ZORAIs the girl animal ready?BEN-GURIThey're doing it now.INSIDE THE LABORATORYEve is struggling and crying as an ape guard carries her towards anoperating table. He and another guard start to strap her down.The Vet works at the bench, heating a steel needle over a flame. It's thesame sort of catheter that was used on Will - one end of the needleattached to a long tube. A knock on the door.VETThat must be Zors with the blood.One of the guards goes and unbolts the door. He recoils - it's Will.Sswhack! He fires the first bolt from a double-barreled crossbow. It takesthe guard in the chest.He and Diamond dive into the room. Eve starts hollering. The second guardis wheeling, crossbow rising. He rifle-butts Diamond across the head. Herweapon goes flying.The guard is aiming. Will is on the floor, tumbling. Barely time to aim, onhis back, firing overhead, he shoots -Whack! Bullseye. The arrow hits the guard dead in the heed.The Vet grabs the first guard's fallen crossbow. He aims at Will. Diamondscreams a warning but there's nothing Will can do - he's struggling toreload, one-handed because of his wounds.Diamond - unarmed - scoops the red-hot syringe off the bench. The Vetreaches for the trigger. Diamond leaps forward. She drives the syringe intohis chest.The Vet stands goggle-eyed. Diamond must have found his heart - a torrentof blood pours down the clear tube. It spills on to the floor. The Vettopples forward.Slash! Slash! Will cuts throughthe straps that tie Eve to the table.OUTSIDE THE HALL OF LEARNINGDrak turns a corner of the building. He stops and touches the ground withhis finger. He lifts it to his mouth and tastes it. He rises to his feet,following trail of blood.A TORCHis ripped from a bracket. It's Drak.. He shines it down into a stone well.The flame splits the darkness. Floating in the water at the bottom of thewell is an ape guard -dead, an arrow through his throat.IN THE ARENAThe Tribe-Boy is sprawled in the dust, bleeding badly from a rip across hisribs. His spear lies next to him, a wooden shield raised across his head.The Teenage ape , rains blows down on it with a sword.The apes in the bleachers are cheering wildly. Smash! The shield splinters.The sword slices the Boy's arm -APESKill! Kill! Kill!The Boy stares up - the Teenage smiles and raises his sword.Shriek! The alarm sounds. Everything freezes. Then officers are on theirfeet, yelling orders. Ape soldiers grab their weapons, heading for thedoors.The Teenage ape looks around, robbed of his moment. The Boy sees hischance. He raises his spear and drives it deep into the ape's groin. Hestaggers and falls - on top of the Boy.The apes pour out of the arena. The siren carries over to -A STONE CORRIDORWill's got Eve slung over his shoulder. They're stumbling down a corridor -past other labs and research rooms. They burst through a sat of doors, into-A COURTYARDat the back of the Hall of Learning. It's deep in shadow. From behind theyhear the sound of pounding feet. Will looks around, not sure which way togo. He glances across a terrace - the doors to the stables fly open. Theape warriors charge out.WILLCan you ride?Diamond nods her head - yes. He thrusts Eve into her hands -WILL (CONT'D)Go for the stables. Head for the eagle's nest. I'll try to join you there.Diamond hesitates - she doesn't want to leave him.DIAMONDWhat are you going to do?WILLDelay them. Now go, Billie. Go!THE PRIMITIVE ELEVATORrops down the side of the ravine. Standing on it are Nazgul and aboutTHE PRIMITIVE ELEVATORa dozen Praetorian Guards. Nazgul looks down - torches and fires in drumsare lighting up the streets and terraces. Ape soldiers are runningeverywhere - searching.ON THE GROUNDThe flame-thrower rolls along a street. The driver's canopy is hidden byflapping tarpaulins. In the chaos nobody pays it any attention.ON THE ELEVATORNazgul sees the machine rolling towards them.NAZGULThat's strange - why does Drak need the Flame?Suddenly he realizel. He turns, screaming up at the apes controlling themechanism.NAZGUL (CONT'D)Stopl Take it backlTHE FLAME-THROWERdead guard is draped over the side of the machine, blood dripping from hisheadWill is in the cabin, working the controls. He sees the elevator slowin mid-descent. He throws a lever forward. For a moment, nothing. Then -Whoosh! A huge tongue of flame blasts out of the barrel.Two of the guards are trying to climb the ropes. Nazgul is wheeling aroundin a panic. The flame hits them! The whole wooden structure catches fire.We see the apes through the flames, struggling and writhing.The ropes burn through. The blazing structure plummets down -THE CENTRAL SQUARESmash! It hits the ground in a shower of blazing timbers and dead apes. Apesoldiers - standing nearby - stare in shock. The smell of roasted ape fillsthe air.EVE SITS ALONEShe's on the floor of the stables, deep in shadow. She's scared, lookingahead -The first weak light of dawn shines through the open doors. We see an apeguard, keys jangling from his waist, on petrol.He hears something - a rock falling, a rustle of movement. Raising hisweapon, he moves towards a pool of black shadow, past a pile of rocks, intoan alcove.Diamond rises out of the rocks behind him. He spins - she's got hercross-bow raised. Point-blank range. She nails him.THE PRISONERSare shackled in the corrals. They see Diamond running out of the shadowstowards them. She tossel them the keys -DIAMONDArm yourselves. Find Will - he needs youl She turns and goes. The prisonersstart to unlock the chains.EVEsmiles as Diamond races out of the shadows, sweeps her up and keepsrunning.IN THE ARENAThe Teenage ape and the Boy lie where they fell, their spilt blood stainingthe dust.The Boy's mother scrambles over the deserted bleachers and goes to her son.She drags off the ape. Her son's eyes are closed, his arms lacerated, hischest wounded and crusted with blood. She stares at him - he doesn't move.She starts to sob. The Boy's eyes flicker open. They look at one another.The motheY gathers him into her arms. He's alive! He's alive!The sound of a horse. The mother turns, fearful. She looks across thearena, through a railing -IN THE CORRALSDiamond gallops a stallion through the corrals. Eve's clutching the saddlein front of her - hair flying, her eyes sparkling with exhilaration. Thestallion gallops faster.The prisoners - unchaining the last of their comrades - turn and look. It'sa magnificent sight. Diamond is crouched Iow over the flying horse.Straight ahead - a railed fence, part of the corral.She leaps the horse over it. They land. In front - another hurdle. Againshe does it.The prisoners stare. Diamond charges towards the open doors of the stables.CLOUDS OF SMOKE AND FLAMEThe crashed elevator hal set the surrounding buildings on fire. Ape city isburning.The Flame stands on a steep incline, its back wedged against the wall of aterrace. Whooshl Fire shoots out of its barrel as Will keeps a horde of apesoldiers at bay.The soldiers turn - Drak, surrounded by the Praetorian Guard, gallopsstraight towards them. He'l not stopping for anything - the soldiersscramble aside.IN THE CABINWill sees Drak and the guards appear through the swirling clouds of smoke.They look like the horsemen of the apocalypse. As Will throws the lever wesea a primitive gauge above his head. It's in the red -IN THE SQUAREWhoosh! The tongue of flame shoots through the smoke. It touches the guardswith a deadly kiss, throwing them screaming from their horses. But Drakblasts through -IN THE CABINWill is engulfed in a backdraft of black oily smoke. He peers through it -Drak charges towards him! Will hits the lever again. The flame erupts fromthe barrel. Then it dies - out of fuel.WILLShit!IN THE SQUAREDrak gallops forward. He raises weapon - a shoulder-mounted harpoon. Heaims -IN THE CABINWill throws himself aside. He smashes both hands down on a lever on thefloor. A hiss of steam. The machine lurches forward -IN THE SQUAREDrak tries to get a clear shot at Will. The machine gathers speed down theincline, coming straight towards Drak. He veers his horse aside and wheelsaround. He charges alongside the cabin - it's emptyON THE MACHINEWill clings to the outside of the Flame as it roars across the smoke-filledsquare. He's out of sight of Drak - but not for long. The ape and hisstallion loom into view behind the machine, Will scrambles back into thecabin -IN THE SQUAREApes are scattering as the runaway machine flies across the square. Drak isat full gallop, veering from one side of the Flame to the other. Willclambers back and forth - cat and mouse at full tilt.Drak swings his horse close to the back of the machine. He stands up in thestirrups, the harpoon clamped to his shoulder - he's going on board!The Flame flies out of the square and down a street. An ape throws himselfinto a doorway - just in time, Drak steadies himself, about to jump.Suddenly his horse whinnies wildly. Drak looks ahead - holy shit!. They'reheading straight for the front of a blazing house.Drak throws himself down into the saddle and hauls on the reins. Will hurlshimself back into the cabin, arms shielding his head. Smash! The Flamecrashes through the front wall -INSIDE THE HOUSEThe barrel of the Flame acts like a battering ram - it blasts through thewalls in a shower of burning timbers. It crashes through the kitchen andstops in a courtyard.Will clambers out of the cabin and drops to the ground. A yell goes up -apes are coming through the adjoining houses. Will turns and heads down analleyway.CITY STREETDiamond's horse flies down a street - a high terrace towers on one side, arow of burning buildings on the other. The road turns right. She swingsaround it - apes! A platoon of them right in front of her. She screams atEve -DIAMONDHold on!She throws herself aside, pulling on the reins. The horse spins in aU-turn, grazing past a burning building. Diamond gallops back the way shecame.Crash! The wall of a burning building in front of her collapses. Blazingbeams block the road. The horse shies away. Diamond wheels him around -The apes race into the road. She looks around desperately - she's trapped.She grabs Eve and awingl her onto the saddle behind her - she'll be saferthere.She spurs the horse forward and crouches Iow in the saddle - she's going tocharge straight through the apes. They drop to one knee - the firingposition - and raise their weapons. A dozen crossbowl aim straight atDiamond.There's no way out - she flies towards them. Whizzl The sound of arrows.But it's not the apes - they go down like nine-pins.Diamond looks up - Aragorn has arrived! Backlit by the rising sun, the menand women of the Tribes are pouring volley after volley into the apes.Nobody fires better than Kip's Wife.Diamond leaps the horse through the dead and dying apes and turns down theroad.MA-GOGstands on a terrace, his cloak blowing in the wind, his one cruel eyeblazing with anger. Flanked by two ape warriors, he looks down on theburning buildings.The freed prisoners are waging a pitched battle outside the stables.Ma-Gog sees Will - he's running along the rooftops, leaping from onebuilding to the next. Ma-Gog points at him, yelling at apes in the streetsbelow -MA-GOG (CONT'D)Kill him! In the name of God, kill himl Sswhish! The blade of a swordcleaves through frame. It cuts one of the ape warriors from neck to waist.Ma-Gog spins - it's Aragorn, armed to the teeth, behind them.The second warrior goes for him. Aragorn has dropped the sword. He raises acrossbow and fires. The bolt shatters the ape's armor and buries itself inhis chest.Ma-Gog swirls aside his cloak. In his good hand he holds a double-edgedsword. Aragorn drops the crossbow ands ducks beneath Ma-Gog's arcing blow.He lunges with a short-handled spear -ARAGORNFor my people!It takes Ma-Gog in the gut. His one eye bulges. Aragorn rips the spear out-ARAGORN (CONT'D)And this - for my daughterl He drives the spear into the High Priest'sheart. The cruel eye flickers and dies.ON THE ROOFTOPWill has seen it all. He screams -WILLBehind you! Aragorn - behind!ON THE TERRACEAragorn turns. It's Drak, on horseback, thundering down on him. But theleader of the Seven Tribes knows no fear - only the memory of his lostchild.He raises his second spear and charges straight at Drak. The huge apelevels the shoulder-mounted harpoon. He pulls the trigger. Sswang! Thepowerful spring on the barrel releases, the harpoon trails a length of ropebehind it -Wham! The harpoon smashes through Aragorn's chest. He dies as he falls.ON THE ROOFTOPWill stares in anguish. He turns away - he sees Diamond. She's at fullgallop - Eve clinging to her back - charging along a road several terracesbelow. She's got a clear run for the iron bridge and freedom.Will looks across at Drak - he's seen her too! For a moment the two of themstare at one another. Will's face is drawn and haggard from the injuries hecarries.Drak's lip curls in a sneer - he knows he's going to win. He beats hischest with his fists and spurs the stallion over the edge of the terrace,going for Diamond.Will runs as fast as his body will let him - along the rooftop.INSIDE A HOUSEAn ape mother cowers in a corner, her two children clutched to her, thesounds of battle all around. She looks up in terror -Smash! Will's feet blast through the roof. He lands on the floor, crossbowraised -but not st her. Framed in the front doorway is an ape warrior onhorseback. Wham! Will shoots him and runs for the horse.DIAMONDand Eve fly down charred street .They head towards a large open square.OUTSIDE THE STABLESSmoke and dust swirl through the air. The freed prisoners are fighting apeinfantry. Drak races past the battle. The rope from the harpoon is tiedaround the saddle, dragging Aragorn's body through the dust.He looks ahead - Diamond gallops across the square. Drak whips his horseforward -A CURVED ROADon a high terrace. Flying around a corner - Will! His coat is billowing,the horse's mane streaming in the wind. He hits the straight-away andgallops even faster.He looks down on the road below - Diamond is ahead but Drak is gaining onher. Will plunges into a tunnelhewn out of rock.ON THE ROADEve clings tight to Diamond's waist. The little girl looks back - Drak isthundering behind them, pennants snapping in the wind, armor glinting onthe horse's chest. It's an awesome sight.Drak has the reins in his teeth. He's using both hands to reload theharpoon.Diamond sees the bridge dead ahead. Heavily armed apes have barricaded it.She curses and yanks the bridle. The horse sweeps around an island in thecenter of the road - a huge monument to some dead ape. She gallops back theway she came, almost passing Drak. He charges round the island.OUT OF THE TUNNELcomes Will. He looks down to the lower road - Diamond and Drak are comingback towards him! He turns the horse around - back into the tunnel.Whooshl He flies out the other end, into daylight. He looks over hisshoulder - he's in front of them but thirty feet too high. He digs hisheels into the horse's flanks -over a Iow wall they fly. God knows where itgoes -DOWN A ROCKY SUDEinto a dead-end cul-de-sac just above the roadway. Apesi Two of them areguarding the Claw and the Bells. Will fires from the shoulder - he dropsthe first ape.The second ape aims at him. Will raises another crossbow. They fire almostsimultaneously. Will throws himself aside, out of the saddle. The horserears and bolts.Will looks up from the dirt - the ape has Will's arrow embedded in hischest. He falls forward - dead.Will scrambles to a parapet and looks down on the road just below. Diamondand Eve - clinging to the horse for dear life - race towards him. Willgrabs a crossbow and struggles to reload. He can't - it takes the strengthof both arms to cock it,ON THE ROADDiamond's horse is lathered in sweat, almost blown. Eve looks over hershoulder, her eyes wide with fear - Drak is close behind, gaining at everystep.IN THE CUL-DE-SACWill leaps from the Balls on to the Claw.ON THE ROADDrak swings the harpoon on to his shoulder. He sights down the barrel. Evesees the weapon lock on to their backs. She screams a warning et Diamond -EVEBillie!Diamond leaps the horse over a charred wagon abandoned on the road. Drakloses her in his sights. He follows her over the wagon.ON THE CLAWWill is in the driver's seat. He throws a lever - nothing happens. He triesanother -the long jib that supportl the two iron jews swings towards theroad.DRAKaims the harpoon. He's got Eve end Diamond, one behind the other, in hissights.DRAKA bargain - two for the price of onelON THE CLAWWill spins a small steering wheel.ON THE ROADDrak is close behind Diamond. The harpoon's massive spring is coiled.Drak's finger curls around the trigger, about to fire.Suddenly he screams - dropping right in front, coming straight towards him,are the opening jaws of the Claw.WILL JERKS BACK ANOTHER LEVER -WILLKeep your hands off her, you dirty ape.The jaws lock clean around Drak's waist, plucking him off the saddle andlifting him up into the air. He's still got the harpoon. He sees Will atthe control. He swings the barrel round -Will hits a switch. Wrong one - nothing happens.Drak's got him in his sights. His finger finds the trigger -Will throws another switch.The jaws start to close! Drak tries to pull the trigger - he can't, hisbody is twisting. The jaws are crushing him! He musters all of his strengthand tries to fire. He and Will look straight at one another. A beat. Drsk'sfinger starts to slide off the trigger -IN THE SQUAREApes stare up at their warrior lord, clamped in the Clew. He let out ablood curdling scream. The bottom half of his torso - everything from thewaist down - falls towards the ground. Maybe it's just the wind, but thelegs still seem to be kicking.The apes reel beck in horror. With mighty battle cry, the tribes-people -the prisoners end Aregom'l followers - hurl themselves forward, attacking.The apes break end start to run.ON THE ROADDiamond end Eve have dismounted. Diamond stumbles forward - Will is comingtowards her. She holds out her arms and they embrace. Neither one says aword, they just hold each other tight.CLOUDS OF SMOKEalmost obscure the setting sun. Will and Diamond stand on the iron bridgewatching the tribes-people. They've harnessed horses to ropes tied aroundthe statues on the avenue of idols - one after another the stone monolithscome crashing down.DIAMONDIf nothing else, we helped the tribes take back their valley.WILLOur valley, too Billia.She looks at him - questioning.WILL (CONT'D)There's one thing I never told you - I never worked out how to get back.She smiles at him.DIAMONDA small point. But give me some credit. I'm a scientist - I knew that.WILL(in wonder)But you came anyway.DIAMONDThat was love.WILLFor the baby?She shakes her head.DIAMONDFor the both of you.They stare into each other's eyes. They kiss.DIAMOND (CONT'D)I only have one regret. We'll never know if we succeeded.WILLOf course we will. You're pregnant - if the baby's born alive, we'll knowit worked.SUNLIGHT GLISTENS ON THE OCEANThe surf rolls in on a golden beach. At the water's edge, a line offootprints. We follow them to find Will on top of a rocky cliff. He'sbuilding something out of iron and rock and sand but we can't make out whatit is.DIAMOND (O.S.)Will He turns and runs to the mouth of a large cave.INSIDE THE CAVEDiamond lies on her back on a pile of animal skins. Her belly is exposed,heaw with the unborn child. Eve crouches next to her, trying to help.WILLIt's started?She nods her head then grimaces with pain as another contraction starts.THE SUN IS SETTING ON THE SEAFrom inside the cave, we hear Diamond scream.IN THE CAVEWill kneels between Diamond's legs. Her face, glistening with sweat; is amask of pain. She holdl Eve's hind tight and pushes.Will, half hidden by her upraised legs, delivers the child. Diamond raisesherself up -trying to See her child. Neither she nor us can see it's face.We push in on Will. Ha raises his hand and slaps the baby's rump. No sound.Ha raises his hand again - suddenly the baby starts to cry. Now we see thebaby - a perfect little boy.Eve laughs. Diamond smiles. Tears fill her eyes. She and Will look at oneanother. He comes towards her and tenderly places the baby in her arms.THE CAVEWill and Eve help Diamond. She comes out of the cave, still holding thebaby. It's magic hour - they stand on a rock ledge, looking at the oceanwashed with color from the setting sun.We see what Will was building. It's sort of like a sculpture - just thehead and crown of the Statue of Liberty.Diamond smiles. She looks at him, wondering why -WILLIt's to make sure we never forget where we came from.The baby starts to cry. Will puts one arm each around Diamond and Eve.We pull back from them - high up into the stars. The baby's cry carriesover. We see earth rise. In all this nothingness - life.