INT. BEDROOM - NIGHTEd lies awake in bed.  He is sweaty and nervous.  His eyes are wide-open, blood-shot and tired.He picks up his bedside clock which is ticking loudly.  It is 3:37.He looks over at the other side of thequeen-size bed. It is still made. He picks a long, blonde hair from thepillow and examines it curiously.There is a noise outside and Ed gets up to investigate.INT. HALLWAY - NIGHTEd walks through the dark hallway and into the living room of his small house.INT. LIVING ROOMBy the front door, hanging on the wall, is aframed picture of Eve, Ed's wife. Ed passes by it and looks outsidethrough the window. There is some wind outside, but nothing else.INT. BATHROOMEd looks longingly at his reflection. Ed Saxon,45, is a morbid, insecure man. His frustration with his life has tingedhis sense of humor with an acerbic bite. His early success, a fewpublications of his poetry, has given him a professorship at theUniversity. He is well-read, intelligent, a bit pompous andoccasionally condescending. But mostly, these qualities are restrainedand his outward appearance is a little sorrowful. There is anunquestionable charm about him, and its effect is evident in the peoplearound him.He searches through the medicine cabinet, whichis full of women's items, and takes out a Cosco-sized bottle ofsleeping pills. He reads the back and takes two.He hears something bang against the front door.INT. LIVING ROOMHe opens the front door and takes a step outside.EXT. PORCH - NIGHTHe looks down by his feet and finds the morningpaper, wrapped in blue plastic, lying on the doormat. He picks it upand goes back inside.INT. LIVING ROOMEd stands helplessly in the empty living room.  Ed's desk sits on one side of the living room,crammed into the corner. He searches quickly through the stuff on thedesk and finds a small address book. He finds a name in the book anddials the number.SUSIE(over phone)Hello?EDSusie.  Hi, it's Ed.  I'm sorry I woke you up.SUSIEIs something wrong?EDEve isn't there, is she?SUSIENo.  She's not there?EDNo.  She didn't come home after work.SUSIEOh, no.  Didn't she call or anything?EDNo.  She was supposed to be home around six.  I cooked her dinner.SUSIECould she have gone anywhere else?EDI don't think so.  Do you?SUSIEI don't know.EDI'm a little worried.SUSIEI bet.  Did you call Harborview?EDNo.  Do you think I should?SUSIEYeah.  If she got into an accident of something, they would take her there.EDYou don't think that's overreacting?SUSIEDon't be silly.  Just call them.  It can't hurt.EDAlright.  But if she comes home later and it turns out to be nothing, don't tell her I called the hospital, OK?SUSIECall me back.EDAlright.Ed finds the Yellow Pages and finds a page of"non-emergency" numbers. His finger runs down the list: Trauma, Fire,Disaster, etc. until he comes to Hospitals and then Harborview. Hedials the number.OPERATORHarborview.EDHello.  I wanted to find out if someone had come in.  In an emergency, maybe.OPERATORHold on.She transfers him and the phone rings again.NURSEEmergency room.EDI wanted to find out if someone had been brought in.NURSEWhat's the last name?EDSaxon.  Eve Saxon.NURSEAre you a relative?EDShe's my wife.NURSEOne second.  No.  No one with last name Saxon.EDAre there any other hospitals that I could check?NURSEWell, we serve as the emergency room for King County,so unless they specified a hospital, they would have been brought here.In an emergency.EDOK.  Thank you.He calls Susie back.SUSIEWhat happened?EDNothing.SUSIEJeez.  Did you guys have a fight?EDNo.  No.SUSIEDid you call the school?EDYeah, a while ago.  No one answered the phone there.SUSIEIt's not like her to not call, is it?EDNo, she would have called.SUSIEWhy don't you call the police?EDThe police?SUSIEMaybe they know something?  Like if she was in an accident.EDIt's going a little far, don't you think?SUSIEI don't know.  If you're worried...It's not like the police have anything better to do.EDI guess.  OK.  I'll call you tomorrow.  Sorry to wake you up.SUSIEIt's OK.  Call me tomorrow.He hangs up.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHTEd looks around the kitchen, searching lazilyfor something to eat. He opens a cabinet that is full of boxes offat-free Skin-EE( chocolate-marshmallow cookies.He opens the fridge, looks around and takes theplate of food he made for his wife. He takes off the cellophane andstarts to eat.He sits at the table, but after a few more bites, he loses his appetite. INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTEd sits at his desk, staring at the phone.  He takes a breath and calls 911.OPERATOR911 emergency.EDHi.  I don't think this is an emergency.OPERATORWhat's the problem?EDMy wife hasn't come home and, I don't know..I wanted to check with the police to see if there was an accident.OPERATORWhen was the last time you saw her?EDThis morning.  She was supposed to come home from work, but she didn't.OPERATORWhen does she get off work?EDAround six.  Usually.OPERATORShe hasn't called since then?EDNo.OPERATORDo you have any idea where she might have gone?  Maybe to a friend's house?EDI don't think so.  I called the only place I could think of.OPERATORBut you were expecting her home.EDYes.  I cooked dinner.OPERATORI could send a police officer to your house.EDDo you think that's necessary?  Maybe I should wait.OPERATORUntil when?  It's five in the morning.EDMaybe she went somewhere.OPERATORWhere?EDI don't know.  Should I be worried?OPERATORI would be.EDYes, I'm worried.OPERATORSo, do you want me to send an officer to your house?EDI don't think so.  I think I should wait.OPERATORDo you think she's going to come home soon?EDI hope so.OPERATORSo do I.  How long are you going to wait?EDA little longer.  I think I may be overreacting.  She might have gone somewhere I can't think of.  Sometimes I worry too much.OPERATOROK.  It's up to you.  My name is Paul.  I'll be here if you change your mind.Ed hangs up.INT. BATHROOMEd takes the sleeping pills from the medicine cabinet and takes two more.INT. HALLWAYEve has a small room in the house that Ed iscautious about entering. He walks in and looks around, as if he hasn'tbeen in there for a while.INT. EVE'S ROOMThe room is painted sky-blue and the ceiling has clouds painted on it.On one side of the room, there is a console piano with some sheet music resting on it.On the other side of the room is a small,antique writing desk. Ed sits down and looks at some of the items lyingon it. There are a couple of letters and an address book. There is abox containing paper clips, etc. There is an open box of Skin-EE(cookies.There is a drawer in the desk which he tries toopen, but finds that it is locked. He searches around the desk for akey, but can'' find one. He presses a little harder at the drawer, butit won't budge. He takes a letter opener from a jar on the desk andstarts to fidget with it, but he still can't open it.Then he hears some distant voices coming fromoutside. He looks out the window where he can see the house next door.There is a light on in the neighbor's window, where the voices arecoming from, and some vague shadows move around inside. Ed turns offthe lights in Eve's room, so that he can see more clearly.From the muffled sounds, it is soon clear that the couple next door is having an argument.Only the woman's voice is clear.WOMANI hate you! Stay away from me! Don't touch me! Just goto sleep! I'll scream! I am not screaming now! You don't know anythingabout me!Then the noise dies down and the woman can be heard sobbing in the distance.INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTEd picks up the phone and dials 911.OPERATOR911 emergency.EDHi.  I called before.  I think I was talking to Paul.OPERATORHold on.Paul comes on the line.OPERATORThis is Paul.EDHi.  I called before.  My wife hasn't come home.OPERATORYes.  I remember.  You want me to send an officer over?EDYes.OPERATORWhat's your address?ED4523 East Street.OPERATORHe should be there in a few minutes.  OK?EDYes.  Thank you.OPERATORYou did the right thing, sir.Ed hangs up. Almost instantly, he sees somelights pass by the window. He looks through the window and sees apolice car pull up. He opens the door and watches the officer as heapproaches the house.OFFICER STEWART is a youngish patrolman.  He is relaxed, caring and formal.STEWARTYou called the police?EDYes.  It was me.  That was fast.STEWARTThank you.EDCome in.Stewart is led a few steps into the living room.  He looks around.STEWARTYour wife didn't come home?  Is that right?EDYes.STEWARTWhen was the last time you saw her?EDWhen she left for work this morning.  She was supposed to come home after work.  I cooked dinner.STEWARTAnd she made it to work, right?EDYes.  I think so.  I don't know.STEWARTWhat time does she usually come home?  Around six?EDYes.  Usually.STEWARTWhat does she look like?EDShe's blonde, straight hair.STEWARTWhat was she wearing?  Do you remember?EDI think it was a red sweater and a dress.STEWARTWhat kind of car does she drive?EDA Volvo.  Gray.  '85, I think.Stewart lets out a sigh of relief.STEWARTWell, you had me worried. There was a blonde womaninvolved with a car-jacking around six. Apparently she was hit on thehead by one of the perpetrators and then wandered away from theincident in a daze. Nobody's seen her since. When I got the call on theradio, I thought that must have been your wife, but this woman wasdriving a Pathfinder and was wearing jeans, so it probably wasn't her.You had me worried.EDShe drove a Volvo.  Drives a Volvo.STEWARTThat's a relief.  Do you know anywhere your wife might have gone?EDI called the only place I could think of.  And I called the hospital.STEWARTHarborview?EDYes.Stewart takes a couple of pills from a bottle and takes them, chasing them down with a coffee he has with him.STEWARTI'm afraid there's not much I can do now. By law, wecan't put out a missing persons until 72 hours has elapsed since thelast time she was seen.ED72 hours?STEWARTUsually in these cases, it was something stupid. Maybeshe was upset about something, had to get away. Who knows? What I cando is take the license plate number of her car and if it shows up forsome reason, we'll give you a call. Do you have your wife's licenseplate number?EDYes.  Actually, it's easy to remember.  007 FEC.STEWARTJames Bond.EDRight.  And FEC, For Every Child.STEWARTAnd what's her name?EDEve.  Eve Saxon.STEWARTAnd your name?EDEd.  Saxon.STEWARTLike I said, it was probably something stupid.  Did you have a fight?EDNot at all.STEWARTWell, you should try to get some sleep and, if shedoesn't show up tomorrow, give us a call and we'll see what things looklike then. OK?EDYes.  Thank you.STEWARTUsually, they come back.EDYes.  Thank you.  I feel much better now.  Thank you for coming.STEWARTNo problem.  You have a good night.  Or morning, I guess.EDYes.  You too.Ed shuts the door. He's a little wired so hesits at his desk and picks up a pile of his students' papers. He readsthe one on top, marking it with a red pen as he does.He hears a gurgling noise coming quietly from the bathroom.  He gets up and walks into the-INT. BATHROOMHe looks around the bathroom, tracing the soundto the bathtub drain. It gets louder as he approaches it, but before hecan investigate, there is a knock on the front door.INT. LIVING ROOM - DAYWhen Ed comes out to answer the door, it is now bright daylight outside.  The sun is streaming in through the windows.Through the washed-out sunlight outside his window, Ed can see a policecar parked in front of his house. Someone knocks again and Ed answers the door.As he does, he picks up the mail that has been dropped through the slotin the door.DETECTIVE DERM, 46, stands outside in plainclothes. Derm is, above all, a nice man. Experience has given him aknowing stare, but he is affable, not suspicious. He is consistentlyprofessional and genuinely concerned.EDHello.DERMMr Saxon?EDYes.DERMSorry to wake you up.EDI wasn't asleep.DERMOh.  I called a few times and when there wasn't any answer I thought I better come over.EDWhat time is it?DERMAbout 3:30.ED3:30?  Maybe I did fall asleep.  Damn.DERMI'm Detective Derm of the Seattle Police Department.  You called last night about your wife.EDYes.DERMWe found her car this morning.  On Capitol Hill.  Actually, somebody called it in.  It was running.EDRunning?DERMDid your wife come home last night?EDNo.DERMDid she go to work today?EDI don't know.  I haven't called.DERMDo you have a number for her there?EDSure.Ed picks up the phone and dials from memory.DERMWhy don't you let me?He hands Derm the phone.DERMHi, this is Detective Derm of the Seattle Police. I waswondering if Mrs Eve Saxon had come into work today, or called in, anyword from her. Yes. Since yesterday. Did you see her leave yesterday?Yes. About what time was that? I'm not sure. Is she calls, or comes in,could you please ask her to call me. My number is 734-9722, extension38. Thank you. Bye.He hangs up.DERMShe hasn't been in today.EDMy God.DERMShe hasn't called here at all?EDNo.DERMAny messages?He points to the answering machine.  It is blinking, full of messages.EDI must have been asleep.DERMThat happens.EDI was up late last night.  DERMI understand.  Why don't we listen to these messages?EDAlright.Ed pushes the button on the machine.The first message is from Eve's work.CELESTE(on machine)Hi, this is Celeste, calling for Eve. We're worriedabout you. You don't come in. You don't call. No, seriously, we justwant to make sure you're OK. Don't worry about your students. Marie'scovering for you. But give us a call, OK? Bye.EDThat's the school where Eve works.  She's a piano teacher at Franklin High.Then there's a message for Ed.MRS MASTRIONI(on machine)Hello, Mr Saxon. This is Mrs Mastrioni from theUniversity. You didn't show up for your morning class and I'm callingto see if you'll be in for your other classes so that I can make theproper arrangements. I assume you remember how to use the phone.EDDamn.DERMYou're a teacher too?EDA professor at the University.The next message is Derm.DERM(on machine)Hello, this is Detective Derm from the Seattle Police Department...Derm takes a small pill box from his overcoat, while the machine plays in the background.DERMThat's me.  Do you have a glass of water?EDSure.Ed goes into the -INT. KITCHEN- and fills a glass for the detective.INT. LIVING ROOMWhen he comes back, he sees Derm casuallylooking over the woman's magazines on the coffee table. Derm picks up afilled-in New York Times Sunday Crossword and looks it over.DERMYour wife did this?EDYes.DERMSmart woman.  The acrostic, too.Ed hands Derm the water.DERMThank you.  Meanwhile the next message comes on.  It is a girl from Ed's class.SADIE(on machine)Hello, Mr Saxon? This is Sadie, from your creativewriting class. Anyway, you didn't show up today and I just wanted tosee if you were OK and, you know, if there was any reading or anythingyou wanted us to do. My number is 323-4854. I hope you're alright. Bye.DERMA student?EDYes.DERMDo they call you often?EDNo, but they all have my number.The next message is from Susie.SUSIE(on machine)He, Ed. I just wanted to find out what happened lastnight. If Eve ever showed up, or what happened. Call me at work,672-5695.EDI thought she might have gone over there last night.  Excuse me, I better call the University.The next message is Detective Derm again and it plays behind Ed's conversation.EDHi, Mrs Mastrioni?MRS MASTRIONI(over phone)Yes.EDThis is Ed Saxon.MRS MASTRIONIOh, yes.  Didn't make it in today, huh?EDI guess not.MRS MASTRIONIThere were students waiting for you.EDYes, I know.  It's a personal matter.MRS MASTRIONIA personal matter, huh?EDThat's right.MRS MASTRIONISo you'll be in tomorrow.EDYes, tomorrow.MRS MASTRIONIOr you'll call.EDOr I'll call, yes.  Hello?  Hello?Ed hangs up, having been hung up on.  He turns around to see Derm standing right by, listening to his call.The next message is from George Simian, a manwho works with Eve. His cautious voice makes it known that it is weirdthat he is calling. Ed pays special attention to this call.GEORGEHi, Eve. This is George, from school. You didn't comeinto work today and I just wanted to make sure everything was OK. Iguess I'll see you tomorrow.DERMWho's that?EDSome guy she worked with.  P.E. teacher, I think.DERMI see.  Mr Saxon, does your wife have an address book?EDYes.DERMCould I see it, please?  And a picture, if you have one.EDCertainly.Ed heads into -INT. EVE'S ROOM- and picks up the small address book from the desk.INT. LIVING ROOMHe hands the address book and takes a picture of Eve from his desk, removing from the frame.DERMGreat.Derm flips through the address book and a business card falls out.  Derm picks it up and looks it over.DERMGeorge Simian.  Is that the same George that called?EDYes.DERMThis address, this George Simian lives on Capitol Hill, where we found your wife's car.EDReally?DERMMay I borrow this?EDI suppose.DERMI'll call the numbers in here and see what I can turn up.  Try no to worry, Mr Saxon.  I'll be in touch.EDYes, thank you.Derm leaves.  Ed shuts the door and locks it.The phone rings and Ed picks it up.EDHello.SADIE(over phone)He, Mr Saxon?EDYes?SADIEHi, it's Sadie Crumb, from your creative writing class.EDOh, yes.  Hi.SADIEAre you OK?  Is this a bad time to call?EDNo.  It's alright.SADIEI was, I don't know, wondering if you were sick or something, when you didn't come to class.EDNo, well, a little.SADIEDo you need anything?  I mean, I could bring you something.EDNo, I don't think so.SADIEReally, it's no problem.  Have you eaten?EDNo, but...SADIEI can bring you something to eat.  It's no problem.  Some soup or something.EDReally, I don't know if it's a good idea.SADIEOh, I'm sorry.EDNo, don't be.  It's just that I don't feel too well.SADIEThat's OK.  I used to volunteer at a hospital.EDReally?SADIEYeah, I was a candy striper.EDYou're kidding.SADIEWhat I mean is, I'm used to it.  You know, sick people.EDYeah?  OK.SADIEWhere do you live?ED4523 East Street.SADIEI'll be there soon.EDOK.SADIEOh.  Do you not eat meat, or anything?EDNo.  I eat anything.SADIEGreat.  Bye.Ed hangs up the phone.  He walks into the -INT. BATHROOMHe looks in the mirror.  His hair is a mess and he is unshaven.  He looks tired.  He turns on the shower.INT. BEDROOMEd takes off his clothes and walks back into the -INT. BATHROOMHe puts his hand under the water.  It isn't warm yet, so he picks up his toothbrush and puts some paste on it.Then he hears a piano playing, behind the sound of the shower.  It can hardly be heard.EDEve?INT. EVE'S ROOMHe looks around Eve's room quickly.  There is no one there.  Ed goes back to the -INT. BATHROOMHe comes back into the bathroom.  The music has stopped and all that can be heard is the shower filling up the tub.The water is about ankle-deep.EDDamn.Ed reaches into the drain and pulls out a clumpof Eve's hair. He throws it into the toilet and then gets in theshower. The drain is obviously still clogged up. He is up to his kneesin soapy water.INT. HALLWAY - NIGHTAs Ed comes out of the shower, he sees that it is completely dark.  There is a knock on the door.EDHold on!  One second!Ed grabs Eve's robe from the back of the bathroom door.INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTEd answers the door.SADIE, 18, is the kind of girl who always hassomething to say in class, who has always done her homework and who hasdefinite ideas about her future and the future of the planet. She isinnocent and naÔve, nice and well-mannered. But also pushy andmanipulative, used to getting her way.SADIEHi, it's me.EDOh, hi.SADIEAre you OK?EDI didn't think you'd be here so fast.SADIEIt's almost eight.EDOh.  I seem to be having a little trouble with time.SADIEI know what you mean.  I'm one of those people who is always late.EDCome in.SADIEI hope you don't mind me coming over like this. Itdidn't occur to me that it might be a little strange until after I hungup. It's just, well, at my high school, I went to boarding school, andwe were pretty close with our teachers.EDIt's nice.  Kindness.  Very refreshing.SADIEI brought you some soup.EDI better get some clothes on.  Make yourself at home.SADIEOK.INT. BEDROOM Ed gets dressed. As he does, he notices a pileof Eve's clothes on the floor. He picks them up and puts them in thecloset, on top of a pile of Eve's dirty laundry.INT. LIVING ROOMWhen Ed comes out, Sadie has put the soup in a bowl and set a place at the table.SADIEI put it in a bowl for you.  I hope you don't mind.EDThank you.Ed sits down and tastes the soup.EDIt's good.SADIEI got it at my favorite place.  You don't mind me hanging out for a little while, do you?EDNo.  I could use the company.  Like I said, I haven't been feeling very well.Sadie notices the pile of papers on Ed's desk.SADIEOh, you graded our papers.EDSome of them.SADIECan I look?EDSure.Sadie looks through the papers.  She finds hers marked with a C minus.SADIEOh.EDWhat is it?SADIEI just...I guess I though this one was better.EDLet me see.Ed looks over the paper for a second.  He takes a pen and crosses out the C and changes it to an A.EDI was in a bad mood when I graded these.SADIEDon't change it if it's not good.EDIt's just a grade.SADIEPlease don't.  No.  Don't.  Please.Sadie takes the paper away from him.EDSorry.  I didn't mean to.SADIEIt's just. I don't think you're doing me any favors byletting me off easy. I mean, I'm hear to learn. It means a lot to me todo well in your class. You're the best teacher I've had since I came tothe University.EDHow long has that been?SADIEWell, I'm still a freshman, but I've met a lot ofteachers and I'm very discerning. Before I took your class I went tothe library and looked up your work.EDYou're kidding.SADIENo.  I read all your poems, or all they had.  The ones in the New Yorker and in Poetry Magazine, and two short stories.EDWhat did you think?SADIEI loved them; the poems especially. I mean, they'redark, but they're so...true. Really. I really got into them. Iphotocopied one and put it on my wall. I hope you don't mind.EDWhich one?SADIE"The Passion of my Youth". It is so intense. "Her eyesblew gently, purposefully by my ears, echoing gentle pulses of blisswhich bounced and fired like a chill on my whole being, leaving just atrace to fuel my longing."EDMy wife like that poem.SADIEYou're married.EDYes.SADIEWhere's your wife?EDShe's at her mother's.  She's gone for a while.SADIEOh.There is an awkward silence.SADIEMay I use the bathroom?EDSure.  Go ahead.Sadie takes her purse and goes into the bathroom.  Ed finishes his soup.  The phone rings and he picks it up.EDHello.GEORGEIs this Ed?EDYes.GEORGEThis is George Simian.EDYes.GEORGEWhere's Eve?EDWhy do you want to talk to Eve?GEORGEWhat have you done?EDExcuse me?GEORGEYou've done something.  I know you have.EDWhat are you talking about?GEORGEThe police found her car near my house.  They think I have something to do with her disappearance.EDMaybe it's because you were fucking her.GEORGEYou son of a bitch.  What did you do?  If you hurt her, I swear, I'm going to kill you.EDLook, she disappeared.  I haven't seen her.  Why do you think I called the police?GEORGEI'll kill you.  I'll kill you, you bastard.  I swear.Ed hangs up. He is shaky, but also strangelyexhilarated. He turns off the ringer on the phone and turns down thevolume on the answering machine.INT. KITCHENHe brings the rest of the soup to the sink,scrapes it into the garbage disposal, and flicks the switch. When thefood has gone down, he starts to wash the dishes. He stops and looksback to the bathroom.INT. HALLWAYEd walks over to the bathroom door.EDSadie?There is no answer.  He knocks on the door.EDSadie?  Is everything alright?There is still no answer.EDI'm coming in.  OK?INT. BATHROOMEd opens the door. Sadie is lying on the floor,passed out. Her pants are around her knees, as if she passed out whilestanding up from the toilet.Her nose is bleeding, like she might have hit it on the way down.  It has bled on her sweater.The air from the open door wakes her up, but she is in a heavy daze.EDAre you alright?  My God.  What happened?Ed comes over to her and lifts her head.  She stares at him strangely.EDCan you stand?  Do you understand me?  I'll help you to the bedroom.Sadie notices her pants are down.SADIEOh.EDI'll wait outside.INT. HALLWAYEd waits outside and, a second later, Sadiecomes out, still reeling, clutching her purse. She leans on Ed, wholeads her into the bedroom.INT. BEDROOMSadie lies down on the bed.EDYou want some water.SADIEYes, please.Ed goes into the -INT. KITCHENHe takes a glass from the cupboard and fills itup. He stops, having noticed something on the glass. He holds the glassup to the light. Eve's lipstick is clearly marked on the rim.He puts that glass down and fills another.INT. BEDROOMWhen he comes back, he finds Sadie digging through her purse.  She pulls out an asthma inhaler and takes a couple of big hits.Then she sits on the bed and drinks a little water.  SADIEI'm so embarrassed.EDNo, don't be.SADIEGod, my nose.EDDoes it hurt?SADIENo, but the blood.EDMaybe you hit it when you fell.SADIEIt was so weird.  I heard someone's voice, a woman's voice.  Like a scream.  And then it was like all my blood left my body.EDSometimes you can hear the neighbors.SADIEIt was like it echoed around the bathroom.  Maybe I imagined it.  I've been taking these caffeine pills to stay awake.EDJust relax.SADIEI should go.EDI can't let you leave like this.SADIEI didn't mean to be such a burden.  I'm such a loser.  I am so sorry about this.It seems that her nose has stopped bleeding, but her sweater has a surprising amount of blood on it.EDI'll get you a towel.Ed leaves and then comes back with a wet towel.He starts to wipe the blood off her nose.SADIEI feel better now.  Thank you.EDDo you want me to drive you home?SADIEI'll be OK.EDMaybe you want me to call your roommate.SADIEMy roommate moved out.  She hated me.  She said I was immature, do you believe that?EDYour friends, then.SADIEI don't have any friends. I don't know what it is.People don't like me here. I thought it would be a good idea to go to aschool far away from home, but since I've been here, it's like, I spendall this time on my own. At my high school, my friends and I were soclose. I just don't get along with people anymore. I don't know what itis.EDYou get along with me.SADIEYou're the first person I've met since I've been here that talks to me like a real person.Ed walks over to the closet and takes out a sweater.EDYou can borrow this, if you want.  It's my wife's.SADIEShe wouldn't mind.EDNo.SADIEI bled so much.Ed gets up to give her some room.She slips out of her sweater and puts the other one on.Sadie looks at a picture next to the bed.SADIEIs this your wife?EDThat's my mother.  That picture is older than it looks.SADIEShe's so pretty.EDShe was young when that was taken.  She died a few years ago.SADIEThat's awful.  How'd she die?EDCancer.  It was quite an ordeal.  She died very slowly.SADIEThat's so sad.  I better go, huh?EDIt's getting late.INT. LIVING ROOMEd walks her to the door.SADIEI'm sorry about everything.EDDon't be sorry.  I'm glad you came.SADIEI'll see you tomorrow.EDTomorrow?SADIEIn school.  You'll be there, right?EDOh, yes.  I'll be there.SADIEBye.Sadie kisses him on the cheek and then leaves.Ed locks the door after her.INT. BATHROOMEd looks at the tub in the bathroom which is full of water.He sticks his finger deep into the drain, tryingto free whatever is in there. There is another tuft of hair, and againhe throws it into the toilet.The gurgling sound that he heard before has come back, resonating through the soapy water from the drain.INT. BASEMENTEd follows the gurgling sounds into the basement.He takes a flashlight from behind the basementdoor and shines it at the pipes that lead from the bathtub drain. Hecan hear the gurgling sound running through them. It sound like theyate something they can't digest. He reaches up and touches the pipe. Itseems to be leaking a little, or maybe it is condensation.Ed traces the noise to a larger sewage pipethat runs down into the basement floor. He watches the pipe, butslowly, his attention is drawn to the shadow next to the pipe.As he stares intently into the darkness of theshadow, a figure begins to emerge in the distance. The darkness beginsto change into a long hallway. A small figure is walking towards Ed andhis footsteps echo in the distance.Ed watches, mesmerized.The basement fades into the blackness, and now, the hallway becomes more clear.INT. HOSPITALIt is a very long hospital hallway, and the figure walking toward Ed is a doctor, carrying a clipboard.DOCTORMr Saxon.EDYes.DOCTORThere's nothing we can do for her now except toalleviate any pain she may be feeling. We have her on a morphine dripand we'll keep increasing the dosage as she shows any signs of pain.EDI see.  Can she understand me?DOCTORAt this point, probably not. She has so much morphinein her, I doubt she can even recognize you. But you never know.Actually, in cases like this, where the end is inevitable, I recommendthat we increase the dosage on the morphine drip at an acceleratedrate. There's no point in making this last longer than it has to.EDWhatever you think is best.The doctor nods, then walks into the hospitalroom where, we see now, Ed's MOTHER is lying in a hospital bed, hookedup to a digital IV. She is old, but looks older - she's been throughchemotherapy and radiation and they have all taken their toll.She stares at Ed with confused and desperate eyes.  It is hard to tell if she is looking at him or not.The doctor, at the door, has a few words with the NURSE, who then looks into the room.Ed sits next to his mother and takes her hand.  She stares at him.The nurse comes in and pushes a button on thedigital IV. Ed watches the LED numbers on the digital IV go up. Thenurse smiles an attempt at comfort, then leaves the room.Mother reacts to the higher dosage of morphine.Her eyes get wider and more delirious. She sits up a little and tensesher muscles. She lets go of Ed's hand and starts moving her arm up anddown.She starts shouting something.  At first, it is completely unintelligible, but slowly, it becomes clearer.MOTHERIT MEANS YOU'RE GOING TO HELL! IT MEANS YOU'RE GOING TO HELL! IT MEANS YOU'RE GOING TO HELL!Ed stands up and backs away.  He backs out of the hospital room as his mother continues to scream.Ed backs into the hallway, which is now blackness.As he backs away, another noise starts to echo around him.  A banging.  A loud banging is coming from upstairs.Ed backs away and then runs upstairs.INT. HALLWAY - DAYAs Ed opens the basement door, he sees that it is bright daylight again.INT. LIVING ROOMEd opens the front door and before he can react, a fist hits him hard in the face.Ed falls to the ground, next to a pile of letters that has been dropped through the slot in the door.GEORGE SIMIAN walks in, wearing a track suit.George, 35, is a stronger man than Ed. He is better looking, too, or,at least, younger. He has a genuine honesty about him, like a big boy.It is this boyish quality that makes his anger seem uncontrollable.GEORGEYou son of a bitch.  Get up.Ed staggers to his feet. He tries to get a swingin at George, but George grabs him by the collar, hits him again, thenthrows him over the coffee table. Ed hits the phone and the answeringmachine on the way down.GEORGEEVE!When Ed doesn't say anything, George starts searching around the house.GEORGE(O.S.)EVE!Ed can hear George searching around in the other rooms.He gets up and sits on the couch, nursing his wounds.After a minute, George comes back into the living room.GEORGEWhat have you done?EDDon't hit me again.GEORGEYou son of a bitch.George sits down on a chair across from Ed.GEORGEYou son of a bitch.EDWhat did you think would happen?  Nothing?GEORGEYou did something.EDI did what I always do. I woke up, went to my shittyjob, came home and cooked dinner for my wife, who was too busy bouncingup and down on your bedsprings to cook it herself. Not exactly what Ihad planned for my life. The same boring shit as always. Why don't youleave?GEORGEI love her.  I'm sorry.  I know she's your wife.George is crying.  Ed, despite himself, is moved.EDWhat? Am I supposed to feel sorry for you now? Well, Iwon't. People think they can just carry on. They don't think that theremight be consequences to their actions. You won't find sympathy here.Why don't you just leave?GEORGEWhat did you do?EDI didn't do anything.  She didn't come home after work.George gets up and starts to leave.EDDon't come back here again.George stops when he hears this and turnstowards Ed with and angry look on his face. He grabs Ed's collar, pickshim up from the couch and slugs him hard across the head. Ed lands onthe floor, stunned and not moving.GEORGEI swear.  If I find out you did something to her, I'll kill you.Ed watches George leave and stays lying on the floor as George's car can be heard driving away outside.The telephone is lying on the floor, knocked offits cradle, just out of Ed's reach. Ed stares at it for a few seconds.It is making that beeping noise that phones make when they are off thehook too long.He slowly gets up and limps into the bathroom.INT. BATHROOMHe looks in the mirror. His eye is swelling upalready and his lip is bruised. He washes his lip off, and then takes atowel from the bathroom.INT. KITCHENHe fills the towel with ice and holds it to his head.INT. LIVING ROOMHe picks up the phone as he walks into theliving room and places it on the coffee table. He sits on the couch andstares at it for a second.Then he brings the phone over to his desk and finds Derm's business card.  He sits down at the desk and calls Derm.EDHello.  Detective?DERMMr Saxon?EDYes.DERMI've been trying to call you.EDYou found her.DERMNo.  I need to talk to you.EDDetective.  George Simian was just over here.  He hit me.DERMAre you OK?EDI think so.DERMDo you want me to call an ambulance?EDI don't need an ambulance.DERMI'll be right over.EDOK.He hangs up the phone.He sits at the desk, resting the ice on his forehead.Then he notices something under the sofa.  It grabs his attention.  He gets up for a closer look.There are dust bunnies and dust under the edgeof the sofa, like it hasn't been swept for a while. Ed kneels down andtries to peer under the sofa. It is dark underneath and he can't seeanything.He reaches his fingers under and sweeps out a few dust bunnies.Then he reaches a little further under the sofa and sweeps out Eve's pinkie finger.He recoils at the sight of this. The finger hasbeen neatly cut, as if by a sharp blade. Dust has clung to the clottedblood around the stump, but it is unquestionably a woman's pinkiefinger.He stares at it for a second, curiously disgusted.He goes to pick it up, decides he doesn't want to touch it, then uses a tissue to pick it up.He hurries to the bathroom.INT. BATHROOMHe drops the finger into the toilet with the tissue and flushes it.INT. LIVING ROOMHe hurries to the edge of the couch with a sponge and cleans up the small amount of blood and dust left there.INT. KITCHENHe squeezes the sponge out until it is clean, then puts it aside.He lets out a huge sigh of relief.INT. LIVING ROOMMuch of the ice has melted and the towel it was wrapped in is now soaking wet.INT. BATHROOMHe takes the towel into the bathroom and rings it out.Then he looks over at the toilet. The finger isstill there, floating like a cigarette butt. The water is pink from theblood, the tissue is gone, but the finger floats there defiantly.He flushes the toilet again, but this time stays to watch.  The water goes down, but the finger stays buoyant and won't go down.There is a knock on the front door.Ed takes a bunch of toilet paper from the rolland tosses it over the finger. He flushes again, but the tank hasn'tfilled up yet and, if anything, this makes it longer until it will fillup again.There is another impatient knock at the door.EDOne second!Ed sits there waiting, listening to the toilet tank filling.The knocking outside is becoming more impatient.The tank finally fills. Ed flushes and watches.This time the paper he threw in clogs the toilet and the bowl quicklyfills up with water.Ed reaches behind the toilet and turns off the water, stopping it from overflowing.He looks in the toilet and can't see the finger through the mess of toilet paper.There is another knock on the door. Ed closes the toilet lid.INT. HALLWAYEd shuts the bathroom door firmly, takes a breath, and hurries out to meet Derm.INT. LIVING ROOMEd answers the door.  Derm comes in with two assistants, MAZUREK and SNYDER.  Snyder is holding Ed's morning paper.DERMDamn.  You did take a couple of blows, didn't you.EDI was just putting some ice on it.DERMThat's the best thing for it. Try to keep the swellingdown. It's going to look worse tomorrow. You don't want to have adoctor examine you?EDIt's not necessary.DERMMr Saxon, Officer Mazurek and Officer Snyder.  They'll be assisting me.EDHi.MAZUREKHow's it going?SNYDERHere.  I brought this in.Snyder hands Ed the newspaper.EDThanks.DERMYou say it was George Simian who hit you?EDYes, he did.  He came barreling in here and hit me.  Several times.DERMDo you have any idea why he would come here?EDBecause he's a fucking asshole.DERMI should say that I'm concerned that he would comehere. Mr Simian has a history of violent behavior, in regards todomestic disputes.EDWhat kind of history?DERMNothing too serious. No felonies. But enough, I think,to warrant some concern. With your permission, I'd like to fill in acomplaint report for his assault on you, and as soon as we're finishedhere, I'll send these two over to arrest him, assuming he can be found.EDYou think he did something to Eve?DERMWe don't have any evidence that he's even seen yourwife she left her office and disappeared. We'll be arresting him solelyfor his assault on you.EDBut Eve's car.  You said you found her car near his house.DERMIt does no one any good to jump to conclusions.EDI guess I misunderstood.DERMWe're going to have to take some pictures of you forthe complaint report. The pictures will be used as evidence against MrSimian if this matter does, eventually, go to trial.EDFine.Derm turns to Snyder, who has heard this conversation, and Snyder begins to take pictures of Ed.DERMMr Saxon. These investigations can be quite demanding,especially when experiencing the trauma of loss. Do you understand whatI am saying?EDYes.DERMIf you feel that you need someone to talk to, at anytime, there are people, sometimes victims of similar situationthemselves, who are will to listen and would like to help.He hands Ed a business card which reads Human Support Services, and has some address and phone information on it.DERMAre you aware that your wife has been having an affair?EDWith George Simian?DERMYes.EDThe P.E. teacher.  I guess I should have known.DERMApparently your wife has been seeing him for some time.  Almost a year, in fact.EDA year?DERMDo you consider that you and your wife have a normal relationship?EDI don't know. Normal relationship. We get on eachother's nerves, have sex a few times a year, order pizza on Fridays.We've been married for ten years. It doesn't stay rosy forever. Maybeit isn't paradise, but that doesn't mean that I don't love her.DERMAre you having any other relationships?EDNo.DERMDoes your wife keep a diary?EDNo.  She isn't the type.DERMMr Saxon.  May I be frank?EDYes.  Please.DERMCases involving missing persons are not uncommon. Inmany cases, and that is not to say in every case, but in many cases,the results are unfortunate.EDMy God.DERMI'm not saying that you should give up hope, but myexperience tells me that you should prepare yourself for the worst.Now, having said that, we will do everything in our power to find yourwife.EDI understand.DERMNow, it's best if we can gather as much information aspossible, as quickly as possible. I'm sure you understand the urgencyhere.EDOf course.DERMIt will be necessary for us to search through some of your wife's personal items.EDI'm sure I can find whatever it is that you want.DERMIt's really in your wife's best interests if you allowus to do it. We won't disturb anything or touch anything without yourpermission.EDAlright.DERMHow about we start in the bedroom?EDThe bedroom.DERMYes.EDRight.  I'll show you.Ed stands up and leads them into the bedroom.INT. HALLWAYThey pass by the bathroom. The gurgling noisesfrom the plumbing echo around the hallway, and while the police don'tseem to pay it any mind, Ed can definitely hear it.INT. BEDROOMEd looks around the bedroom quickly before they go in.EDHere you go.  It's sort of a mess.DERMDo you know where your wife keeps her credit card receipts?EDYes.  Sure.  This way.Ed leads Derm to Eve's room, leaving the two assistants in the bedroom.INT. EVE'S ROOMEd goes over to Eve's writing desk and looks over the papers lying on top.DERMNice room.EDYou like it?DERMYeah.  Very Magritte.  It's like a nursery.EDI guess it is.  I always through it was more of a conservatory.DERMWith the piano.EDRight. She plays in here sometimes. It's nice. Wealways wanted to fix up the whole house, but, this is the only room wegot to.DERMThings always cost more than you think.EDYeah, I don't know what happened.  Anyway, we share a credit card, but she mostly uses her own.DERMIf someone has taken your wife, there's a chance theymight have used one of her credit cards. Or she might have used itherself.Ed pulls at the locked drawer in the writing table.EDI think she keeps the receipts in here, but I don't have a key.Derm looks at the lock.DERMLet me try.Ed gets out of the way and Derm sits in thechair to examine the lock more closely. He presses his thumbs againstthe desk and breaks the wood around the lock, forcing the drawer open.DERMThere we go.EDI could have done it if I wanted to break it.DERMI'm sure she'll understand.EDShe won't.  I promise.Ed sits back down and searches through the drawer.  He finds some credit card receipts and sorts through them.MAZUREKDetective Derm.Mazurek comes into the office carrying Sadie's sweater, which has blood all over it.Snyder follows Mazurek in and looks over Mazurek's shoulder.MAZUREKIt was under the bed, sir.Derm takes the sweater and looks at the blood on it.DERMIs this your wife's?EDNo.DERMThere's blood on this sweater, Mr Saxon.EDYes, I know. A student. Detective, this is going tosound awkward, I guess, but a student of mine came to the houseyesterday, after you were here. She was nervous, I suppose. She had abloody nose.DERMWhy would she have been nervous?EDI don't know, but she seemed nervous.DERMThat is awkward, isn't it.EDI suppose it is.  I gave her one of my wife's sweaters to wear home.  She must have left that one by accident.DERMBy accident?  Under the bed?EDI don't know.DERMWhat was her name?EDSadie.  Sadie Crumb.Derm finds a small, printed name-tag readingSadie Crumb sewn into the collar. Derm shows it to Mazurek and thenindicates for him to go back to the bedroom.Derm shows the label to Ed.DERMDo you have this girl's phone number?  I'd like to talk to her.EDI don't think so.  Maybe.Ed gets up and walks into the -INT. LIVING ROOM- where his desk is.  He searches around and quickly finds a photocopy of a hand-written list of phone numbers.DERMI should call her.EDSure.  Here.He hands him the phone.  Derm dials the number.EDI didn't tell her about my wife.  I didn't see any reason to.Derm reaches into his pocket and pulls out aroll of Tums. He takes a couple and chews them and it obviously puts abad taste in his mouth.DERMCould I trouble you for a glass of water?EDSure.Ed walks into the -INT. HALLWAYHe passes by the bathroom and stops by thebedroom door. He looks into the bedroom where the officers aresearching through his stuff. They find a copy of Hustler Magazine andthey chuckle about it, before they notice Ed watching them.As he watches, he can hear Derm talking to Sadie.DERM(O.S.)Hi. May I speak to Sadie Crumb, please? This isDetective Derm of the Seattle Police Department. Can I ask you a fewquestions?The officers turn and stare at Ed until he leaves.INT. KITCHENEd takes a glass from the cupboard. He takes itover to the sink and fills it with water. The tap makes enough noise sothat he can't hear anything else.INT. HALLWAYAs Ed passes the bathroom door, the gurglingnoises from the plumbing get louder. He makes sure the door is firmlyshot and then brings the glass of water to Derm.INT. LIVING ROOMDerm hangs up the phone and drinks the water.DERMThank you.EDWell?DERMShe sounded very nice.  You know, I think she left her sweater under your bed on purpose.EDWhy would she do that?DERMSo that she'd have a reason to come back.EDI see.Derm sees an open box of Skin-EE( cookies.DERMHey.  My wife loves those things.  I swear, she eats them by the box.  I think they taste like shit.EDI know.  I hate them.  Sometimes I think she eats them just to spite me.MAZUREKDetective Derm.Derm looks at Ed, then goes into the other room.  Ed follows.INT. HALLWAYDERMDid you go to work today, Mr Saxon?EDNo.  I guess I didn't.DERMIf you'd like, I can call the University for you and explain the situation.  It might help.  I'm sure they would understand.EDI don't think it's necessary.DERMWell, the offer stands if you change your mind later.EDIt's just that, I don't want them to know anything about all this.  At least not yet.DERMI understand.They walk into the -INT. BEDROOMMazurek is holding a small, fabric-bound writing book.DERMWhat's that?MAZUREKLooks like a diary, sir.DERMLet's have a look.Derm looks it over, reads the last couple of entries quickly.DERMWhere'd you find this?MAZUREKBehind the bedside table.EDI didn't know.DERMWe have to keep some things to ourselves, or we'd go crazy.  This is your wife's handwriting?He shows him the diary.EDYes.  Can I look at that?DERMOf course.Ed takes the diary and wanders into Eve's room, flipping through it as he walks.INT. EVE'S ROOMEd flips through the last pages of the diary. Hereads for a minute. Some distant noises are coming from the neighbor'shouse. While we can't hear exactly what is being said, it is clear thata man is saying something funny and a woman is laughing hysterically.Ed reads for a minute until, astonished, he puts it down and looks up at Derm, who is standing in the doorway watching him.EDI guess you never really know anyone.DERMYou didn't know that you're wife is pregnant?EDNo.DERMI'm sorry.  I talked to her doctor yesterday.  I thought you knew.Mazurek comes up behind Derm and says something inaudibly in his ear.DERMIs it alright if Mazurek uses the bathroom?EDExcuse me?DERMThe bathroom.  May we use the bathroom?  We might be here for a while.EDNo.  The toilet is stuffed up.  Actually.  Do you mind leaving?  I just would like to be alone.DERMMr Saxon. I'm sorry about the intrusions into yourprivacy, but you must understand: my first priority is finding yourwife. There is still a great deal to go over. We might want to notifythe press.EDThe press?DERMIn cases like this, when we don't have many substantial leads, getting a picture of your wife on TV can be invaluably helpful.EDI don't know if I'm comfortable with that.DERMWe still have options left, but without a thorough search of your wife's belongings, those options are extremely limited.EDI want to be helpful, but I really don't see how, ifyou think she was kidnapped, I don't see how it helps you to searcharound our things.DERMWe don't know that she was kidnapped. We can't drawthose kinds of conclusions. She could have simply decided that sheneeded some time alone. We have to consider every possibility.EDI just don't see how it helps.DERMI don't want to argue with you.  We're trying to help you.  This is our job.EDI understand.DERMIt is in the best interest of your wife that you let us do that job without impediment.EDI don't want to get in the way. I just would like sometime alone. You can comes back tomorrow, but, please. I'm very tired. Iknow it might seem irrational, but I haven't slept in a long time andthis is all extremely overwhelming. Please. I need to be alone.DERMCertainly.  If I could just take those receipts.EDSure.  Here.  Take them all.The receipts are on the desk in front of him and he hands them to Derm.Derm reaches out for the diary.EDI'd like to keep this.DERMThere are some things it may be better not to know, especially if your wife comes back.EDI can give it to you tomorrow, if you still want it.Ed leaves the diary on Eve's writing table and walks the officers out.INT. LIVING ROOMDERMMr Saxon.  Is there something wrong with your answering machine?EDYes.  It broke when I fell on it.DERMYou haven't been answering your phone.EDIt hasn't rung.Derm looks at the phone and sees the ringer is turned off.DERMThe ringer is off.EDOh.  I must have turned it off.DERMWhat if your wife calls?DERMYes.  Of course.  I wasn't thinking.DERMCould you please leave the phone on from now on?EDYes.  I thought I was.  OK.  Thank you.DERMI'll be calling to let you know how things go with Mr Simian.EDYes.  Thank you.Derm and the officers leave.Ed lets out a sigh of relief.  He touches his forehead and it obviously hurts.He goes back into the bathroom.INT. BATHROOMHe opens the medicine cabinet and searchesthrough the plethora of over-the-counter medicine crowding the shelves.He takes a bottle of Midol, or some other feminine pain-killer. Hetakes a few of them and chases them down with a handful of tap water.Then he turns to the toilet, lifts the lid and looks at the stuffed-up mess.He rolls up his sleeve and sticks his hand in the bowl.  He searches around for the finger.The phone rings.  He gives up searching and, with some wet toilet paper stuck to his arm, hurries to answer the phone.INT. LIVING ROOMEd picks up the phone.EDHello.MRS MASTRIONIMr Saxon.  This is Mrs Mastrioni, from the Dean's office.EDYes?MRS MASTRIONIMr Saxon.  You are supposed to call us when you plan on missing class.  There were students waiting for you.EDYes.  I know.  I'm just having some personal problems.MRS MASTRIONIAnyway, the Dean wants to see you.EDThe Dean?MRS MASTRIONIYes.  Can you come in today?EDNo.  What does he want to see me about?MRS MASTRIONII don't know.EDIs it about me missing classes?MRS MASTRIONIIt might be.EDWhat's that supposed to mean?MRS MASTRIONIIt means that if I was the Dean, and I wanted to see you, that is what it would be about.EDWhat kind of bullshit is that?MRS MASTRIONIThere's no need to get upset, Mr Saxon.EDAm I being fired?  Is that it?MRS MASTRIONILook, I don't know.  The Dean said he wanted to see you.EDWell, I can't see him.MRS MASTRIONIPersonal problems?EDThat's right.  Yes.MRS MASTRIONIThat's too bad.EDYes it is too bad.  Because I know what you're trying to do.MRS MASTRIONIReally?  What's that?EDYou know what?  Why don't you tell the Dean to go fuck himself?MRS MASTRIONIMr Saxon...EDAnd you go fuck yourself too.MRS MASTRIONIDoes this mean that you won't be coming to class tomorrow?EDFuck you!Ed slams the phone down.INT. BATHROOMEd takes the bottle of Midol from the medicine cabinet and takes a few more.Then he notices a trail of pink water leading from the toilet, along the bathroom floor and into the hallway.He follows the trail.INT. HALLWAYThe trail leads up to the pinkie finger. Edwatches while the finger moves, inchworm-like, across the floor, towardEve's room, leaving a wet trail behind it.Ed watches for a second while he decides what to do.He quickly grabs the finger and takes it to thekitchen sink. He drops it in the sink, pushes it down the drain andflicks the garbage disposal on. He turns the water on and leaves itrunning until it sounds like there is nothing left of the finger.When he turns it off, he sticks his hand in, searching for any remnants of the finger.  It appears to have gone down.He takes the sponge and wets it.INT. HALLWAYHe wipes up the trail of the finger, following it back into the bathroom.INT. BATHROOMHe looks at the toilet, which is still stuffed up.INT. BASEMENTEd searches around the basement for a plunger.  The basement is full of strange sounds, all ruminating from the exposed pipes.He finds a plunger among some other tools andstarts back upstairs, but on his way upstairs, he finds that there is apuddle of water on the floor. He traces the source of the puddle to thepipe that was only moist before. It is now dripping slowly and a largepool of dirty water is collecting in the shallow recess of the cementfloor.Ed stares into the murky, black pool.There is a knock on the door upstairs and Ed turns to answer it.INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTEd answers the door and sees that it is now dark outside.GEOFFREY COSTAS stands outside. Geoffrey, 54, isa wise, patient man. He is formal and calm in his manner, but thesequalities belie a warm emotional vulnerability. Physically, he is notsmall or weak. One gets the impression that he wasn't always so kind.GEOFFREYMr Saxon?EDYes.GEOFFREYHello.  My name is Geoffrey Costas.  I'm from Human Support Services.EDI'm not interested.GEOFFREYDetective Derm asked me to stop by.He hands him a business card.  Ed takes the card and looks it over.GEOFFREYYou've been hit.EDI'm fine.  I don't need a doctor.He tries to hand the card back.GEOFFREYOh, I'm not a physician.  I'm a psychiatrist.  But I'm not here on business.  This is my time off.EDThis is a personal visit?  I don't understand.GEOFFREYHuman Services is a volunteer organization.  We offer assistance to victims of traumatic crimes.EDWhat kind of assistance?GEOFFREYAdvice, support, a shoulder to cry on.EDWhy would I want to cry on your shoulder?GEOFFREYMaybe you just want someone to talk to.  It can be a lonely world when those you love are taken from you.EDNo.  I don't think so.GEOFFREYWell, you have my card.  If you feel like talking at another time, please feel free to call.EDActually, there is something you can help me with.  I've been having trouble sleeping.GEOFFREYThat's understandable, under the circumstances.EDIs there something you can give me?GEOFFREYYou mean a prescription?EDYou're a doctor, aren't you?GEOFFREYYes.EDI can't seem to find anything strong enough.GEOFFREYYou're anxious.EDYes.  I can't sleep.  It makes me anxious.  Or maybe I can't sleep because I'm anxious.  I don't know.GEOFFREYHow long has this been going on?EDA long time.GEOFFREYWeeks?EDOh, yes.GEOFFREYYou must have slept some.EDMaybe I do. But I don't seem to get the benefits. Inever feel rested. There just doesn't seem to be the time to relaxanymore. I'm always two steps behind. I have to stop the thinking. Thelonger I stay awake, the more my thoughts become frantic, irrational.If I don't get some sleep soon, nothing is going to make any sense.GEOFFREYI see.  May I come in?EDYes.  Come in.Geoffrey comes in and places his briefcase on the table inside.GEOFFREYThere are times when the pressures of everyday lifebecome overwhelming. As a doctor, I notice more and more of my patientsexperiencing similar symptoms. I'm afraid it's a sign of the times, asmuch as anything else.EDCan you help me?GEOFFREYLike I said, I'm not here on a professional basis. Yourinsomnia is merely a symptom of a greater unwholesomeness. A lastingtreatment may be extremely hard to come by. There's very little we canhope to accomplish with pharmaceuticals alone. However, under thecircumstances, I can give you something to help you sleep. Do you havehealth insurance?EDYes, through work.Geoffrey takes a prescription pad from his briefcase and scribbles out a prescription.GEOFFREYThe prescription I'm going to write for you isexpensive, so I recommend you save the receipt for your insurancecompany. I'm sure they'll cover it. These pills are quite new. I'vebeen prescribing them to my patients who travel a great deal, for theirjet lag. They will help stabilize your internal clock by chemicallysuppressing certain amino acids in your brain.EDWill it help me sleep?GEOFFREYOh, yes.  Now, take two at night, and don't take more than six in a day.  OK?EDYes.  Thank you.Geoffrey shuts his briefcase and starts to leave.GEOFFREYI'm glad I could help.  How about I check in on you tomorrow afternoon?EDTomorrow?GEOFFREYTo see how you're doing?EDI don't know.GEOFFREYFor what it's worth, I understand your position betterthan you think. Don't shut it all out. Sometimes that fragileconnection to the rest of the world is all we have. I sincerely hopethings turn out for you. Tomorrow then?EDTomorrow.Ed shuts the door behind Geoffrey.INT. BATHROOMEd works the plunger in the toilet. The water isstill pink from the finger, but also might be pink from the pink toiletpaper that is now broken up and mixed in with the water.He plunges the toilet a few more times and thenstops to see if it is working. The water slowly goes down. He reachesbehind the toilet and turns the water back on. He flushes it and itseems to be working again, albeit weakly.He sits on the edge of the bathtub and takes abreath. The water in the tub hasn't gone down, so he takes the plungerand starts to work it over the drain.After a minute, he sees that it isn't working.He reaches into the drain and pulls out a huge clump of scum-filledhair. It is repulsive to Ed. He throws it into the toilet. The water in the bathtub still hasn't gone down.INT. KITCHENHe searches under the sink through an exhaustivesupply of cleaning supplies. He eventually pulls out a king-sizecontainer of Drano.INT. BATHROOMHe reads the back of the container quickly, then pours the whole thing down the drain.He watches it for a second, waiting for it to go down.Slowly, then softly, the piano can be heard playing in the other room.Ed listens to it before following it down the hallway.INT. HALLWAYThe lamp on Eve's writing desk is on and it lights up the end of the hallway.  The music still seems to be coming from her room.INT. EVE'S ROOMEd comes in and looks around the room.  There is no one playing the piano, but the music continues over the rest of the scene.Ed's attention turns to the diary, which isstill sitting on the desk where he left it. Ed sits in the chair andstarts paging through Eve's diary. The piano continues playing.We hear Eve's voice as it must have been when she was writing.EVE(V.O.)More than three weeks late. Damn. I'm so stupid. Ihaven't told George because I'm sure he would use this as an excuse topressure me to leave Ed. And how can I tell Ed. There's no way he couldbe the father. We haven't had sex in months. He would know it isn't is.Ed flips back a few pages.As he does, the camera starts to travel aroundthe room, passing the piano, and then a few pictures from Eve's past,then some souvenirs on a shelf.EVE(V.O.)Saw a movie last night with George. It was awful; justthe kind of movie Ed hates. I wanted to tell him about it, but Icouldn't. I told him I was at Susie's. George loved it, of course. Ithink he likes every movie. Still, it was nice to go out on a date likethat. It was fun.INT. HALLWAYNow the camera has turned to the empty hallway.  It slowly moves toward the bathroom.EVE(V.O.)Ed came home in a shitty mood and started picking afight with me about a coffee cup I broke last week. It was the lastthing I needed, today especially. Sometimes I fucking hate him. He canbe such a shit.INT. KITCHENThe camera pans over the glass that has Eve's lipstick on it.EVE(V.O.)I can't believe what a jock George is. I knew he workedout, but he really takes car of himself. After we had sex, I wasembarrassed to let him see me naked. How could I have gotten so fat?I'm going back to the gym tomorrow. I've really let myself go to pot.Maybe I'll get him a softball bat for his birthday next week.INT. BATHROOMThe camera comes into the bathroom and passes over all of Eve's things sitting on the back of the toilet.EVE(V.O.)Ed doesn't sleep anymore. He's beginning to scare me.He takes all these pills to help him sleep, but they only make itworse. And he hates me. I can see it in his eyes. He blames me foreverything that went wrong in his life. Maybe he's right. Maybe it ismy fault. I feel so guilty about George that I can't argue with himanymore. I can't keep this up much longer. Fuck it. I'm going to tellhim about George tomorrow. He knows anyway. He must know. He's beenacting so weird. Poor Ed. He used to have so much ambition. And he's sotalented. I just wish things had turned out better.The camera turns toward the bathtub, andfocuses slowly in on the drain. A few bubbles pop out from under thewater and the water starts to drain out. As the camera dollies in onthe drain, the last of the murky water disappears.Ed, now standing in the bathroom, strikes amatch and holds it up to the diary until the corner finally catches onfire. He fans out the pages so that it will catch more. When he can't hold it anymore, he drops itinto the bathtub and watches it burn. He watches it until it has burntitself out, burning into a pile of thick, black ashes.INT. HALLWAYEd looks up at the smoke alarm.  He tries to pull it down, but it is out of his reach.Ed grabs a chair from the living room and standson it so that he can reach the alarm. He pulls the cover off the alarmand then the battery out and the alarm is finally silenced.Then he hears voices coming from outside the front door.He approaches the front door cautiously, thenputs his ear up to the door and listens. The voices are muted andwhispered, but Ed can still hear what is being said, although it ishard to tell who is talking.HARVEY(O.S.)No.  I won't.SADIE(O.S.)You are so crazy.HARVEY(O.S.)I'm crazy?  What about you?SADIE(O.S.)Quiet.  He's going to hear you.HARVEY(O.S.)So what if he hears me.  Who is he, anyway?SADIE(O.S.)God, you are being such an asshole.Ed opens the door quickly.EXT. PORCH - NIGHTSadie and Harvey freeze like caught children.HARVEY, 19, looks younger than his is; hisfacial hair isn't capable yet of filling out his meager goatee. Heseems hurt, like a spoiled child who hasn't gotten his way.EDWhat's going on?SADIEChrist.  I'm so sorry.HARVEYWho's this?  Is this him?SADIEWill you shut up?HARVEYHe's so old.EDExcuse me?SADIECan we just go inside?  Please?Ed lets Sadie inside.HARVEYSo that's it?  You're going with him now?SADIEYou really don't understand anything.HARVEYYou said you loved me.SADIEJesus.  Would you shut up?  You are so embarrassing.HARVEYEmbarrassing?  I'll tell you what's embarrassing.  You with this fucking geriatric old man.  That's embarrassing.EDYou little shit.Ed makes a move toward Harvey, but Harvey backs away quickly.HARVEYDon't touch me!SADIELet's just go in, OK?  He'll leave.HARVEYUser.SADIEStalker.  Psycho.HARVEYSlut.Sadie slams the door on him.INT. LIVING ROOMSadie stands staring at the floor.  SADIEI can't believe that.  You know, he followed me here.EDHe followed you?SADIEYeah.  Do you believe it?  Oh my God.  What happened to you?EDSomebody hit me.SADIEAre you alright?EDI'm fine.SADIEWho hit you?EDI really don't want to get into it.SADIEI nearly had a heart attack when the police called me.EDWhat did they ask you?SADIEJust about me being here.  About what happened.EDBut nothing happened.SADIEThat's what I told them.EDThey found your sweater.  It has blood all over it.SADIEYou're kidding.EDYou left it under the bed.SADIEOh, yeah.  Damn.  I don't know why I do things like that.EDWhat if my wife had found it?SADIEOh.  Is she here?EDNo.  Look, Sadie.  I don't want you to get the wrong idea.SADIEDon't be mad. It's just that I worry too much. Youdidn't come to class again. And you said you would. I started gettingall these ideas. I called you, but nobody answered. I meant to bringyour wife's sweater back, but I forgot it.EDActually, I'm glad you're here.  Can you do me a favor?SADIESure.  Anything.EDI have to get a prescription filled.SADIENo problem.Ed finds the prescription on his desk.EDI'd go myself, but I'm expecting a phone call.SADIESure.He hands her the prescription.EDThere's a twenty-four pharmacy on Market.SADIEI know the one.  I go there all the time.  It's like my second home.EDI'll give you my credit card.Ed finds his wallet and hands her the card.SADIEI'll be back in a minute.EDThank you.Sadie skips out the door and Ed shuts it behind her.INT. BATHROOMEd turns on the shower, washing the ashes down the drain.After he's watched them go down, he takes asponge and cleans off the burnt mark in the tub as best he can. Heturns the shower on, rinsing it out.He turns the shower off and hears the phone is ringing.INT. LIVING ROOMEd picks up the phone.DERMMr Saxon?  Detective Derm.EDYes, hi.DERMI wanted to let you know that we've taken Mr Simian into custody.EDI understand.DERMWe found him at his place of work.EDAt the school?DERMYes. We arrested him there. He'll come up forarraignment tomorrow morning and then, as far as I can tell, he'llprobably be released on his own recognizance.EDI see.DERMIt's just standard procedure, but I thought I'd keep you informed.EDYes.  Thank you.  Did he say anything about Eve?DERMTry to rest, Mr Saxon.  We have a lot of ground to cover tomorrow.EDI will.  Thank you.DERMGood night.Ed hangs up the phone.Then he hears some sounds coming from Eve's room.INT. EVE'S ROOMEd takes a few steps into Eve's room.  He traces the noises to the window and looks out at the neighbor's house.The light is on in the neighbor's window, andthere are some vague shadows moving around on the closed curtain. Asthe noises get louder, it soon becomes clear that the neighbors arehaving sex.Ed peers out at the light in the window,listening to the woman's increasing moans. The woman seems to be insome sort of painful, orgasmic delight. In other words, it mostlysounds like she is having a good time, but there should be a growingsuspicion that not all is right.WOMAN(O.S.)Oh.  Oh.  Oh!  Oh!  OH!  OH!  NO!  NO!  NO!Ed backs slowly away from the window.  He hears someone knocking on the front door.INT. LIVING ROOMEd opens the door and Sadie comes in holding a colorful paper bag.EDThank you.Ed takes the bag from Sadie and goes into the kitchen.INT. KITCHENSadie follows him in.Ed opens the pills quickly and swallows three of them with a glass of water.SADIEThose pills cost a lot.  They must be strong.EDThey're sleeping pills.  I've been having trouble sleeping.SADIEYou must have anxiety.  I can never get to sleep when I'm anxious.EDI am anxious.  Yes.Sadie takes some other stuff out of the bag. Oneof the items is an individually wrapped Skin-EE( fat-free cookie,chocolate, chocolate chip.SADIEI got you some peroxide and stuff.  And a cookie.  I haven't eaten today.EDYou put it all on my credit card, right?SADIEActually, I paid for it.  They wouldn't take your card.EDWhy not?SADIEThey said you hadn't paid your bill, on the phone.  They called the credit card people when it didn't go through.EDDamn.  Well, I'll pay you back.SADIEIt's OK.  I charged it to my Dad.  I don't even pay the bill.EDNo, those pills are expensive.  And my insurance will cover it anyway.SADIEPay me back later, then.  Really, it's OK.EDAre you sure?SADIEIt's fine.  I swear.Sadie looks at the cuts on his face.SADIEYour face must hurt.EDNo.  I don't seem to feel anything.SADIEIt's nasty.Sadie takes a closer look.SADIEHere.  Sit down.She sits Ed down at the kitchen table, under alight, and sits across from him, then takes the peroxide and somecotton swabs she bought at the pharmacy and starts to dress his wounds.EDI've never been hit before.SADIEMe neither.EDIt's not so bad, really. It's humbling, but I like theeffect it seems to have on people. It seems to make them morecompassionate. There's a competitive market for suffering in the world.It's difficult to stand out from the handicapped and the homeless andthe politically oppressed. Sometimes a little advertising helps remindpeople that you're a human being.SADIEIt does make you look sort of cute, in a pathetic kind of way.EDSadie.SADIEAre you really married?EDWhat?  You think I just made it up?SADIEI don't know.  Some people just say they're married, you know, because maybe they think it's more respectable or something.EDI'm not one of those people.SADIEI didn't mean to imply anything.  It's just that you act sort of weird.EDI act weird?SADIENot weird, really.  Worried, I guess.  Secretive.  Like you're worried I might find out something about you.EDYou don't want to get involved with my problems.SADIEMaybe I do.EDBelieve me, you don't.SADIEI didn't mean to pry.  Well, maybe I did.  I'll just put a band-aid on it.EDWould you like a drink?  I'm going to have one.1tt1He finds a bottle of wine.SADIEYou're not supposed to mix wine with sleeping pills.  It increases the amount of medicine that's absorbed into the bloodstream.1tt1Ed searches for a corkscrew and starts to open the bottle.EDI need all the help I can get.SADIEIt's dangerous.EDIt's just wine. I'll only have a glass.1tt1He offers her some and she nods. He pours her a glass. Sadie takesher glass into the living room. Ed downs his glass of wine and refillsit quickly before following her.INT. LIVING ROOM1tt1She sits down at his desk.SADIEAre you working on anything new?EDNo.  I don't write anymore.SADIEWhy not?EDI just don't have the time.  I have to work all day.  Time just slips by.SADIEI know what you mean.  There's not enough time in the day.EDNot as much as there used to be.SADIEThere used to be more?EDYes.  Before I had to work there was plenty of time.SADIEBut you had all that stuff published.EDSure, but it didn't pay very much. I had a lot of debtsfrom school that needed to be paid off. And then, credit cards. Andthen I got married, bought a house. Life comes with all these expenses.And poetry just doesn't pay. I thought working at the University wouldat least give me summers off.SADIEDoesn't it?EDNot really.  No.1tt1There is a knock on the door.  The idea that someone else might see them together makes it awkward for both of them.1tt1Ed freezes for what seems like a long time; long enough for whoever it is to knock again.EDI better see who that is.SADIEYeah.1tt1Ed goes over to the door and opens it cautiously.  It is Eve's friend, SUSIE.SUSIEHi, it's me.EDOh, hi Susie.1tt1She is about to walk in, when Ed blocks her way.  She can see Sadie sitting at Ed's desk holding a glass of wine.EDEve's not here.SUSIEOh.  She came back though, didn't she?EDNo, she didn't.SUSIEOh no.  Can I come in?EXT. PORCH - NIGHT1tt1Ed, rather than let her in, pushes her outside and shuts the door behind her.EDNo.  I'm busy right now.  I called the police.SUSIEWhat did they say?EDThey're working on it.  You can call them if you want.1tt1Ed finds Derm's card in his pocket and hands it to her.SUSIEAren't you worried?EDOf course I'm worried. I'm just working right now. Thisgirl is one of my students. She wanted some help on an assignment. Shedoesn't know anything about Eve being missing.SUSIEWhat happened to you?EDGeorge Simian hit me.SUSIEGeorge?EDYou know him.  It figures.1tt1Susie starts crying.  Ed stares at her helplessly, then goes back inside.SUSIEWait.1tt1Ed stops.SUSIECan I come back later?EDIt's late.  I just took some sleeping pills.  I haven't slept much since this all started.  Why don't you come back tomorrow?SUSIETomorrow?EDGood night, Susie.Ed walks back in, leaving Susie standing on the porch.INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTEd waits by the door until he hears her footsteps walking away outside.Sadie stands up, looking nervous.SADIE2t2Is that your wife?ED2t2No.  It was a friend of hers.SADIE2t2I should go.ED2t2No.  Why?SADIE2t2You must be tired.  Those pills must be working.ED2t2I don't think they're working at all.SADIE2t2Still.  You're married, right?ED2t2Yeah, but, please don't go.  Please.  Time has a way of slowing down when you're around.SADIE2t2Really?  For me, too.ED2t2So you'll stay?SADIE2t2If you want me to.Ed comes over to her and kisses her.SADIE2t2Can I ask you something?ED2t2What?SADIE2t2Do you think my writing is good?ED2t2You've done some good work.SADIE2t2Yeah.  C minus good.ED2t2I told you, I was in a bad mood when I graded that.SADIE2t2I guess so.She is unresponsive at first.SADIE(to herself)2t2What am I doing?They kiss for a minute, then Ed slips his hand under the back of Sadie's sweater.She kisses him again.INT. BEDROOMSadie turns the lights off and we can only see by the light coming in from the hallway.Ed lies on the bed and Sadie lies next to him,under the covers. Ed slips his hand under the back of her sweater andfiddles with her bra while they kiss.The gurgling sound starts up again, and whileSadie doesn't notice, or doesn't hear it, it becomes increasinglydistracting to Ed. He looks to the bathroom where the noise is comingfrom.INT. BATHROOMThe camera focuses in on the drain.  The water in the bathtub starts rising again.INT. BEDROOMSadie breaks away from him, sits up and takes off her sweater.  Ed takes off his shirt.Ed's kisses move around the side of her neck. Ashe reaches her ear, he looks up and notices Eve's clothes sitting onthe chair.INT. BATHROOMThe water is rising slowly, but we can see solidstuff (the ashes from the diary are clearly part of the muck) seepingout of the drain with the water. It is a cloudy, dark, disgusting waterwhich probably stinks too.INT. BEDROOMEd is trying to concentrate on Sadie, but he notices the closet door is open and there are some dresses blowing around inside.And the noise from the bathroom is getting louder.He turns Sadie onto her back, turning himselfaway from the closet. His kisses run down her chest until he gets toher jeans. He unbuttons her jeans and starts to pull them off, kissingas he goes.Ed has taken her pants off, but his passion andenthusiasm has faded, and he stops and stares off into space, towardsthe bathroom. He is spooked.SADIE2t2What's wrong?He looks down and sees Sadie staring at him.ED2t2I don't know.  Maybe it's those pills.  I don't know.SADIE2t2Just relax.  Lie back.Sadie gently pushes him back and starts to go down on him.Ed get more uptight.ED2t2No.  Please.  Just stop.She keeps trying until Ed is forced to push her away.ED2t2It's just not working.  OK?SADIE2t2Alright.  I'm sorry.Sadie turns away.  She's upset.SADIE2t2Maybe I should go.ED2t2No.  Please, don't.  It's my fault.  Please.  Don't go.SADIE2t2Damn, I'm so stupid.ED2t2No, it's me.  Please.SADIE2t2This was a mistake.Sadie gets up and puts on her shirt.  She grabs the rest of her clothes and goes into the living room.Ed stares after her, listening to her finish dressing herself and then leave.The clock next to the bed is ticking loudly and the sound of the ticking continues of the next few scenes, as indicated.INT. KITCHENEd pours a few more pills into his hand, swallowing them with some wine from the bottle.INT. BATHROOMEd looks at the bathtub, which is full of themurky water. He picks up the plunger, which is still by the toilet, andstarts working it on the drain.More stuff is coming up, making the waterdarker, but as he relaxes the plunger, the water doesn't go down. Ifanything, the gurgling sound is louder.He works the plunger some more, more vigorouslyand then, again, relaxes it and watches the drain hopefully. Thegurgling noise seems closer and the water still does not go down.Then he hears something hit the front door.INT. LIVING ROOMEd opens the front door and picks up thenewspaper which has just been thrown. He puts it with the othernewspapers, which have piled up in their plastic wraps on his desk.INT. BATHROOMHe comes back into the bathroom and looks at the bathtub. He puts the plunger over the drain and works itmuch harder and, this time, after a few seconds, there is a loud knockin the pipes, as if he hit something. He takes the plunger away andwatches the drain.Suddenly, a large air bubble bursts out of the drain.  He watches, but the water shows no sign of draining.Then, slowly, blood starts to leak into the tub from the drain.Ed is naturally terrified by this.  He watches until it is clear that it is blood and not just more gook.He puts plunger back on the drain and pumps it afew more frantic times. More blood seeps out of the drain. He seems tobe making the problem worse.He shuts the shower curtain and backs out of the bathroom.INT. KITCHENHe spills the pills on the kitchen counter andcounts them quickly. There are about ten left. He pours them into hismouth and swallows the rest of the wine.Then the ticking stops.  Ed looks at a clock on the wall.  The second hand has stopped.He hears voices in the other room.INT. EVE'S ROOMHe looks out of the window in Eve's room. Hesees that the light in the neighbor's window is on. The couple nextdoor are having another argument, but this one is much more intensethan the last.WOMAN(O.S.)2t2Why do you care! You don't care! You know nothing about me! I hateyou! Stay away from me! I'll scream! I am not screaming now! You thinkyou're the only one? Yes, I do! I LOVE YOU! You never do that! You donot! You never do anything! You think that nothing's wrong! You thinkwe live in paradise! This is what I think of this fucking house!There is the sound of things breaking.WOMAN(O.S.)IT'S NOT MY FAULT! IT'S NOT MY FAULT! THEN DON'T! I AMNOT! I LOVE YOU! FUCK YOU! I CAN'T BELIEVE YOU SAID THAT! STAY AWAYFROM ME! YOU RUINED MY LIFE! STAY AWAY FROM ME! STOP IT! SHUT UP! STAYAWAY FROM ME! NO! STOP IT! YOU SON OF A BITCH! HELP! HELP!This ends with a loud, terrifying shriek.  It seems to echo around the room as Ed watches.  Then the voices stop.Ed watches the window and sees a featureless manstick his head through the curtains to see if anybody is listening.Then he closes the window and curtains.The phone rings in the other room.INT. KITCHENHe hurries to answer the phone.While he is on the phone, a new sound is coming from the bathroom.  It is like the gurgling sound, but also subtly different.EDHello.DERMMr Saxon?EDYes.DERMIt's Detective Derm.  I'm sorry to call you so late, but I thought you would want to hear this.EDYes?DERMI'm afraid I have some bad news.EDWhat is it?DERMIt's your wife.  We've found her...EDYou found her.DERMWe found her body.EDHer...DERMYes, sir.  In the woods, near George Simian's house, where we found her car.  I'm afraid she's dead.Ed drops the phone.  He walks trance-like into the hallway.He follows the noise into the -INT. BATHROOMThe noise coming from the bathroom now sounds more human, like a baby gurgling.As Ed walks into the bathroom, he can see thatthere is something in the bathtub. The shower curtain is closed, butbehind it, there is some sort of body moving. Ed pulls the curtainback. He reveals a baby, just born, lying in the tub. Most of the murkywater has drained and left a dirty ring around the tub.The BABY is a newborn, except that its eyes aremaybe larger than they would be. The Baby is also SIX FEET TALL. It'simmense frame fills the bathtub. It is naked (it's a boy).Ed watches with amazement. The baby looksincredibly real, except for its size. The stare at each other for aminute. The baby looks a lot like George Simian. It has his eyes.Other than this, it behaves like a baby. It islying on its back, gurgling peacefully with his feet in the air and hisleft hand gripping the shower curtain.The baby reaches out for Ed lovingly.Ed backs away.Seeing this, the baby starts crying.Ed, panicking, approaches the baby. It is stillcrying. Ed reaches out to touch it. He touches its arm and the baby'scrying starts to subside. The baby moves with typical, quick, chaoticmovements that, because of the baby's size, are almost threatening.Ed puts his hand in the baby's hand. The babygrips it as baby's do, but this baby's hand is about the size of Ed's.The baby stops crying and returns to its curious gurgling.Ed tries to pull his hand back, but the babywon't let go. The baby, it seems, is incredibly strong. Ed pullsharder. He still can't get the baby to let go. Ed tries to pry thebaby's fingers off, and this time manages to get his hand out of thebaby's grip.But as soon as he does, the baby starts crying again.He backs out into the hallway.INT. HALLWAYEd is in a panic.  The baby's cries echo around him as he backs away from the bathroom.INT. KITCHENEd finds himself in the kitchen. He looks at hishands which are covered with bloody muck from the tub. He washes themoff in the sink. He looks over at the kitchen knife which has beendrying in the dish rack.INT. HALLWAYEd walks slowly, purposefully to the bathroom.  The crying baby gets louder as he approaches.INT. BATHROOMHe comes into the bathroom, but in the tub,instead of the baby, there is a grown man's body. It is Ed, staring upat himself from under the water. We only see a very tight shot ofBATHTUB ED's head and part of his neck. His head is under water and helooks up, unable to move.We then see the reverse shot of this and it isalso of Ed, so that Ed is, in effect, looking up at himself through thecloudy water.The baby cries continue, although the baby is no longer in the scene.From Bathtub Ed's point of view, we see the other Ed takes the kitchen knife and lean forward and to the right, off-camera.Bathtub Ed, who can move his eyes, tries to lookto his arm, where the other Ed is cutting. Soon, blood starts to mixwith the water, diffusing over Bathtub Ed's face.The blood also diffuses over Bathtub Ed'sP.O.V., as he looks up at the other Ed cutting him. When the other Edis finished cutting, Bathtub Ed sees him put the knife aside and thenreach down, off-camera. After a short struggle, the other Ed pulls upBathtub Ed's severed arm and slips it into a garbage bag he has alreadyprepared.The blood from Bathtub Ed's cut fills the water with dark blood, turning the film red.The red dissolves into a pool of blood that is in the hallway.INT. HALLWAYEd, with a bucket and sponge, is cleaning pockets of blood from the floor and walls.  He is crying while he does this.He squeezes the sponge for the last time, theninspects the hallway as closely as he can, searching for any spots hemight have missed.Then he picks up the bucket and takes it into the bathroom.INT. BATHROOMHe dumps the water from the bucket into thebathtub. The water is pink and dirty. He sits down on the edge of thebathtub and watches the water go down the drain.He stares at the drain in a trance until he hears a knock on the front door.  He turns to listen to it in the other room.INT. HALLWAY - DAYAs he opens the bathroom door, he sees that the sun is shining in from the living room.INT. LIVING ROOMGeoffrey stands patiently outside as Ed opensthe door. He carries his briefcase and looks dressed for work. Hisappearance is a stark contrast to the half-dressed, blood-shot Ed.GEOFFREYHi.  I wanted to see how you were getting along.EDGetting along?GEOFFREYI have to say, you don't look well.EDI'm not well.GEOFFREYHave you slept?EDI don't know.  Maybe.  It's difficult to tell.  I have these lapses, but I'd hardly call it sleep.GEOFFREYDid you take the pills?EDThe pills are fucking useless.GEOFFREYBut you took them?EDYes.GEOFFREYI see.  May I take your blood pressure?EDOK, fine.Geoffrey comes in and places his briefcase onthe table. He takes a stethoscope and the rest of his blood pressurekit and starts to take Ed's blood pressure.EDI feel like a lab rat.  Like one of those lab rats they drug up and study.  You know what I mean?GEOFFREYYou feel like a rat.EDThey put them in a maze and they give them shocks anddrugs and they see what they do. They try to prod them in the directionthey want them to go.GEOFFREYTry to relax.EDI feel like a rat who took all the turns, took all thedrugs, went down the right path and then, when I got to the end, theyshocked me anyway, right up the sphincter, like it was all just a bigjoke. I guess they thought I'd be too drugged up to notice.GEOFFREYIt's been a few days, hasn't it, since your wife disappeared?EDDays?  Yes.  I guess.GEOFFREYHas there been any word from the police?EDHaven't you talked to them?GEOFFREYNo.  But if you'd like me to, I will, on your behalf.  They know me and I've been through this before.EDWith others?GEOFFREYWith others, and myself.  My wife was taken from me about three years ago.EDWhat happened?GEOFFREYIt was a similar situation to yours. The police foundher car in the parking lot of a mall. They found her body about a weeklater in some woods nearby.EDShe was murdered.GEOFFREYYes.EDDid they ever catch the man who did it?GEOFFREYNo.EDWhy would somebody do that?GEOFFREYSometimes a man, when faced with his own problems or inadequacies, takes it out on someone weaker than themselves.EDI'm sorry.GEOFFREYDo you feel responsible at all for your wife's disappearance?EDWhy?GEOFFREYPeople often blame themselves for events that they haveno control over, especially when the events seem so random and cruel.Action leading up to tragedy tend to become more significant. Detailsweigh on the conscience.EDI do seem to be having problems with my conscience.GEOFFREYI see.EDDo you think that's why I can't sleep?GEOFFREYCould be.EDIs there anything you can give me?GEOFFREYA prescription?  For your conscience?  Of course not.EDThen what's the point?GEOFFREYThere are other ways I can be of help.EDA shoulder to cry on?GEOFFREYWould you like me to call the police?  There might be some news.EDThe police called last night, late last night.  They found Eve's body.GEOFFREYOh, no.EDThey found her buried in the woods, near where they found her car.GEOFFREYI'm sorry.  I didn't know.Geoffrey's watch alarm goes off. He looks at thetime and then, habitually takes a shiny silver pillbox from his pocket.He takes two pills out.GEOFFREYExcuse me.EDI never knew I could feel so alone.Geoffrey takes a thermos from his briefcase, pours some hot tea into the lid and swallows the pills with a mouthful of tea.GEOFFREYHe hasn't called since last night?EDNo.GEOFFREYIt's been a while.  Why don't you let me call him?  Maybe there's some news.When Ed doesn't object, Geoffrey takes his address book from his briefcase, along with a cellular phone and dials the number.GEOFFREYDetective Derm, please. Hi, Charlie, it's Geoffrey. I'mover at Ed Saxon's house. Yeah. He was hoping to get some informationon his wife. Uh-huh. Well, he said you called him last night and toldhim that you had found her body. Uh-huh. I see. In the woods, nearwhere you found her car. I don't know. Yes. Well, I did give himsomething to help him sleep. Right. Yes.Then Geoffrey turns away from Ed and says a few words quietly, so that Ed can't hear.  Then...GEOFFREYYes.  Yes.  I'll tell him.  Yes.  OK.  Bye.Geoffrey hangs up and turns back to Ed.EDWhat?GEOFFREYHe says he never called you last night.EDWhat?GEOFFREYHe told me to tell you to wait here for him; that he's coming over.EDI don't understand.GEOFFREYIt is possible that you did fall asleep, that youdreamed the phone call. I have to say that I was surprised when yousaid you hadn't slept. Those pills are very effective.EDThe pills.  Yes.  Maybe.GEOFFREYStill, this is better, isn't it?  I mean, now there's still a chance.  Your wife could still be...There's still hope.EDYes.  Hope.  But why is he coming over here?GEOFFREYHe said he had some questions to ask you.EDWhat questions?GEOFFREYHe didn't say.EDIf he had some questions to ask me, he could have asked me on the phone.GEOFFREYCalm down, Mr Saxon.EDWhy did you turn away from me when you were talking to him?  What did you say?GEOFFREYI said you were very tired and anxious and that you seemed to be under a great deal of stress.EDYou're lying.GEOFFREYI have no reason to lie.EDDon't you?GEOFFREYNo.  Why do you think I'm lying?EDBecause you're scared.Geoffrey does look scared.  He has quickly packed up his briefcase.GEOFFREYMr Saxon.  Please.  I understand you're under a lot of stress.EDYou don't understand anything.GEOFFREYI came here to help you.EDThen help me.  Please.GEOFFREYI've done all I can now.  I'm sorry.  I can't do any more.EDBut, you'll come to see me again, won't you?GEOFFREYNo.  I don't think I will.Geoffrey leaves.  Ed shuts the door.The phone rings.Ed picks it up.EDHello?GEORGEIs this Ed?EDGeorge.GEORGEWhat did you do to Eve?EDI didn't do anything.GEORGEI know you did. I saw her before she left work. We metin the parking lot, like we always did. She told me she was leavingyou. She was going to tell you when she got home.EDYou don't know anything about it.GEORGEYes, I do.  I know you.  Eve talks about you.  She tell me things.EDWhat things?GEORGEI know about the fights you have.EDShe's my wife.  We fight sometimes.GEORGEThat's bullshit.  I know what kind of a son of bitch you can be.  She's told me.EDWhat don't you tell it to the police?GEORGEI did.EDYou think she was some sort of angel?  She was cheating on me.GEORGEI love her.  I loved her.Ed listens to George break down.EDI'm sorry.There is a long pause.GEORGEIt's not enough.George hangs up.INT. BATHROOMThe bathroom is completely clean. There is nosign of any of the activity from before. Ed finds the bottle ofprescription sleeping pills. It is empty. He takes a couple of Midoland swallows them dry.INT. LIVING ROOMEd sits down at his desk.  He looks over the papers on his desk.  Sadie's is on top.  He looks it over.The phone rings and he picks it up.EDHello?SADIEHello.EDSadie.SADIEI wanted to apologize.EDNo.  Don't apologize.  It was me.SADIEI shouldn't have left like that.  I don't know what came over me.EDIt was understandable, under the circumstances.SADIEI really wanted you to like me.EDI wonder if you'll still feel the same way when you find out what kind of person I really am.SADIEI'll still keep your poem on my wall.EDYes.SADIEI think it's a beautiful poem.  I really do.  Are you still there?EDYes.SADIEI wish things had turned out better.She hangs up.  Ed stays on the phone, listening until the dial tone clicks back in.Then Ed hears a car pull up outside.  He follows some quiet footsteps as they walk up to the front door.He sees the door knob turn quietly in the door.  The door is locked.Ed approaches the door slowly, but suddenly, there is a crash against it.  Someone is trying to knock the door down.The door is strong, and doesn't open, but the wall around it shakes.After a few seconds, there is another crashagainst the door. This time the wall shakes so much that Eve's picture,which hangs by the door, almost falls off its nail.Ed looks out of the window. The window ispositioned facing the street, but not the porch, so he cannot see whoit is, but he can see a car parked out front, with the door still open.Inside the car, there is a softball glove lying on the passenger seat,along with something that George Simian was wearing when we last sawhim.George crashes against the door again. Thistime Eve's picture falls off the wall. It hits the ground and smashes,spreading broken glass around her picture.The door is starting to loosen around the lock and jamb.INT. HALLWAYEd backs into the hallway.  As he passes the bathroom, he can hear the gurgling sounds from the plumbing starting up again.INT. KITCHENEd backs into the kitchen. He searches around,quickly finding the kitchen knife. He grabs it out of the dish rack andstarts walking toward the front door.INT. HALLWAYThere's another bang on the door.  Ed passes slowly through the hallway, watching the door, holding the knife in front of him.The gurgling sounds in the bathroom are deep and resonant, echoing out of the drain, around the bathroom and into the hallway.There is another hard crash against the door,which breaks the jamb. The door is only being held on by the splintersaround the lock and George starts kicking the door with his foot.Ed backs into the basement door.  He opens it and goes into the-INT. BASEMENTHe hurries down the stairs into the darkness ofthe basement. The pipes surround Ed with hysterical, thick, waterysounds. There are metallic creaks and strains which reverberate aroundthe walls of the basement as the pipes seem to expand and contract.A couple of inches of dark, dirty water have collected on the floor and Ed's feet get wet as he steps off the last stair.Ed finds a place to hide in the shadows behindsome boxes. He stares up, as he hears the door breaking open upstairsand someone walking into the living room.With his eyes, he follows the footsteps as they search the apartment.Ed has hidden under a large pipe, which isdripping drops of dirty water onto his face. In the darkness of thebasement, the color of the water is unclear, but as he wipes some ontohis fingers, he can see it is murky and dark.The basement door opens slowly, and from thelight upstairs, Ed can see the silhouette of George Simian standingwith a softball bat.Ed grips onto his knife and watches as Georgecomes down the stairs, step by step. The water keeps dripping on thetop of Ed's head, running down the side of his face, but he holdsstill.Ed watches George come down the stairs.George reaches the bottom and steps into the shallow water.  He peers cautiously into the shadows.  He starts walking toward Ed.Ed withdraws as much as he can into his corner until he is in complete darkness.He watches George approaching him and he slowly raises his knife.George raises his softball bat. He takes a fewmore steps up to Ed, but then steps blindly past him and into a deep,dark shadow.Ed watches him disappear into the shadow andthen, makes his move. He rushes into the shadow with his knife raisedand both he and George are engulfed in darkness.After a few seconds, Ed emerges from theshadow. He drops the knife into the water at his feet. As he does,blood runs out of the shadow, mixing with the water in the basementfloor.Ed walks slowly upstairs.  The noises around him in the basement are now at their loudest.  INT. BATHROOMEd takes a long look at himself in the mirror.He is wet with blood and dirt. He opens the medicine cabinet and findsthe sleeping pills he was using before. He opens the bottle and emptiesit into his hand. There are only about five pills left.He takes the two toothbrushes from a toothpaste-crusty glass and fills it with water.  He takes the pills.Unsatisfied, he searches through the rest of themedicine cabinet. The selection, though not particularly toxic, is agood representation of standard, over-the-counter pills and tonics. Hefinds the Midol and takes the last few from the bottle. There is abottle of cold medicine which he finishes off. He drinks down a nearlyfull bottle of pink diarrhea medicine. He finds a bottle ofmulti-vitamins and takes a handful of those. As he finishes each one,he drops the empties onto the floor of the bathroom.When he stops, he notices blood seeping out ofthe bathtub drain. It is pure, thick, dark blood. He backs away intothe hallway.INT. HALLWAYEd backs into the wall and then, losing strength in his legs, lowers himself to the floor.  He keeps watching the bathtub.Piano music starts to seep through the gurgling noises.  Ed turns towards Eve's room.On the other side of the house, outside thebroken door, Ed can hear Derm's car pull up. Ed watches the living roomas Derm comes in carefully, flanked by Mazurek and Snyder.Derm comes over to Ed and kneels down in front of him.  Ed looks up at him helplessly.EDIt wasn't me.Derm looks at Ed's hands, which are covered in blood.EDIt wasn't me.Ed watches Derm looking at him.  Then he notices, behind Derm, blood seeping over the rim of the bathtub.Ed turns to Eve's room, where the piano can still be heard.The camera continues on where Ed can't go: downthe hallway to Eve's room. As it approaches, all the other noises fadeout and the piano is all that we hear.Ed watches from his position in the hall so that it all seems like his point of view.INT. EVE'S ROOMThe camera comes into Eve's room and turns to the piano.EVE is sitting at the piano, playing some music.We watch her for a few seconds. She turns to the camera as she plays,then continues playing.Then the camera turns toward the clouds paintedon the ceiling. A crack appears in the plaster and starts wideninguntil there is an empty black space behind it. The sound of the babycrying seeps in from the crack. The camera zeroes in on this blackuntil it fills the frame. Over the blackness, we can hear the babycrying until it fades out.THE END