REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE by Stewart Stern CAST OF CHARACTERS JIM'S FAMILYJIM'S GRANDMA: A chic, domineering woman in her sixties who has made her son Frank dependent upon her for every breath he takes. She is the irritant in the household--the silent ruler--the silent enemy of Frank's marriage.JIM'S FATHER: Frank is an unfeathered man who has never been able to have fun. He is anxious to be a real father to Jim, but has never learned how.JIM'S MOTHER: Tense and immature, she has never found the husband she married. Upset by the presence of her mother-in-law, mated with an ineffectual and joyless man, she takes out her disappointment on him and on her son.JIM: The angry victim and the result. At seventeen he is filled with confusion about his role in life. Because of his "nowhere" father, he does not know how to be a man. Because of his wounding mother, he anticipates destruction in all women. And yet he wants to find a girl who will be willing to receive his tenderness. JUDY'S FAMILYJUDY'S FATHER: a junior partner in a law firm. Boyish, attractive and debonair. Because he is frightened by the adolescence of his daughter, Judy, his only recourse is to criticize her.JUDY'S MOTHER: Self-centered and frightened by the coming of middle-age. She feels that Judy's blossoming youth is threatening her wifely position as the desirable object of the husband's attentions.JUDY: The victim and the result. At sixteen, she is in a panic of frustration regarding her father--needing his love and suffering when it is denied. This forces her to invite the attention of other men in order to punish him.BEAU: Judy's brother. Because he is very young he is a danger to nobody and thus will grow up happily-- certain of the love of his father who feels comfortable in giving it.PLATO: Son of a divided family--an absent father and a traveling mother--he feels himself the target of desertion. At fifteen he wants to find a substitute family for himself so that he need no longer feel cold, and especially a friend who will supply the fatherly protection and warmth he needs and cannot find.BUZZ: A sado-masochistic boy of seventeen, who acts out aggressively his idea of what a man should be in order to hide his real sensitivities and needs. He was probably rejected by both parents and must constantly court danger and must constantly court danger in order to achieve any sense of prestige or personal worth. THE KIDSHELEN, CRUNCH, MOOSE, GOON, CHICK, COOKIE, MIL: All searching for recognition in the only way available to them; all suffering from unfulfilled hungers at home; all creating an outside world of chaos in order to bear the chaos they feel inside. They are soldiers in search of an enemy.FADE IN.A deep night sky. Matte shot. Camera searches slowlyupward through the heavens and the silver tone of a bell isheard sounding the strokes of midnight.On the final note of the bell, camera is full on the MilkyWay and there it rests, just long enough for a burst ofEaster singing to arise. The hymn is sung by the crude,unmatched voices of children. Camera pans down to include:Spire of a church. Camera continues its downward pan as thesinging continues and we pass a window beyond which is thesource of the singing. Camera pans off window to show--Long shot. City. Night. Suddenly revealed--crisp andsparkling with lights. Camera pans down and over:A lonely street full of parked cars. The singing diminishesbut a thread of it remains. A car has just parked. Theheadlights snap off. A MAN emerges whistling the samemelody and pulls some gifts from the front seat. He slamsthe door and starts down the street in the direction of ahouse with bright windows. He must pass an empty lot fullof rusty grass and litter which lies in darkness between twostreet lights.As the MAN walks by the lot, still whistling, a GROUP OFFIGURES rises silently from the grass, figures who have beenlying in concealment until now. They step noiselessly ontothe pavement and follow the MAN. At the sound of theirboots the whistling stops.The MAN glances behind him and sees the figures walkingafter him, filling the pavement. A street light shows themto be boys and girls and all quite young. The MAN moves onmore swiftly and the sound of their pursuit increases. Hebegins to run toward the lighted house and the followingsteps run too. Suddenly he stops under the next streetlight and turns to face the figures. They are upon him andaround him quickly. Nobody speaks for a moment, then one ofthe boys grins. His name is BUZZ. He is big and filledwith an awareness of his own masculinity. BUZZ (friendly, cool) That was pretty what you were whistling. Whistle some more.The MAN whistles a nervous phrase, trying to make a joke ofthe situation which he doesn't understand. BUZZ (continuing; suddenly) You got a cigarette? MAN Oh, I think so--The MAN fumbles in his pocket, finds a pack and drops it inhis nervousness. The FIGURES wait until he picks it up. Heoffers one to BUZZ. MAN (continuing) Filter tips. BUZZ (smiling, encouraging) You smoke it. Smoke it, Dad.Smiling uncertainly, the MAN puts the cigarette in his mouth.BUZZ, still smiling, takes out a packet of wooden matches. BUZZ (continuing) I'll light it for you, Dad.BUZZ ignites a match and holds it near the Man's face for asecond, searching it. Then he ignites the whole box underhis nose. The MAN shrieks, and his packages fall. BUZZslaps him sharply, his smile gone.The camera pans away as the figures enclose him, and holdson a small mechanical monkey which has dropped from itswrappings. It begins to dance madly on the pavement, thenruns down.The feet of the figures scatter past the unmoving monkey.Then camera rises to show that the man has disappeared.There is a moment of awful stillness, then we see a boycoming down the street alone. He is quite drunk, and heslips once. This is JIM, a good-looking kid of seventeenwith a crew-cut and wearing a good suit. The spilledpackages on the pavement stop him. He bends down to seewhat they are and picks up the mechanical monkey from thewreckage. He smiles and winds it up. He sets it on thesidewalk and sits down. He watches it dance for a moment,happily. A siren is heard distantly, growing louder. JIMpays no attention to it as he winds the monkey again andreleases it for its dance.SUPERIMPOSE TITLE: "REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE" STARRING ____ assiren rises piercingly close, and JIM looks up, we: DISSOLVE TO:Close shot. Throbbing light of police car. Night. Thesiren screaming wildly, then dying. The sound of brakes.Camera moves to reveal the police car stopped at theentrance of a Precinct Station. Two officers dismount,bearing between them the struggling JIM. They bear him upthe steps and in through the double doors.Inside precinct station. Reception area. A large open spaceonto which several corridors converge. In the middle is aSergeant's desk, really a quadrangular counter in the centerof which the SERGEANT stands. There are a few glass-walkedinterviewing rooms which open off the area, and severalbenches lining the walls. The scene is one of confusion,activity and waiting. Phones ring. The arrested pass incustody of officers. Present among others at JIM's entranceare: JUDY, who is blonde and sixteen. She sits on a crowdedbench wearing an expression of downcast bitterness. On abench across the way from her are three remarkably dirtylittle Mexican children without shoes or socks. The oldestis a BOY of four who is protecting his little SISTER who inturn mothers an infant crying on the bench beside her.Standing at a corner of the desk is a docile, undersized boyof fifteen named JOHN "PLATO" CRAWFORD. He is shivering.With him is a large NEGRO WOMAN, his maid. JIM comesthrough the doors and is led to the desk. One of theofficers presents a brief report to the SERGEANT, whoexamines it. SERGEANT Mixed up in that beating on Twelfth Street? OFFICER No. Plain drunkenness. SERGEANT This says he was picked up there. OFFICER They had him on the carpet for an hour at Headquarters. He's clear. Plain drunkenness. SERGEANT Young squirt. All right--You want to lean him against something? Stand him over there.The officer leads JIM to JUDY's bench and stands him againstthe wall beside it.JIM is frisked, a look of prayer on his upturned face. TheOFFICER finds the toy monkey in his pocket and would takeit, but when JIM asks to keep it, the OFFICER hands it backand moves away. Another officer enters and leads theprisoner who is sitting next to JUDY into another room. JIMsits beside her. He smiles at her but receives only achilling look. He winds the monkey up and sets it dancingon the floor, but she is not amused. Camera pans to showothers reacting to the monkey with pleasure. We see PLATOlook up and smile a little. Camera stops on the MEXICANCHILDREN who are smiling too. A bald JUVENILE OFFICER namedGENE, squats before them, smiling. GENE You going to tell me your name now?The little boy shakes his head. LITTLE BOY (touching GENE's bald pate) Where's your hair? GENE It's all gone. LITTLE BOY Did you get a haircut? GENE No--it just fell out! LITTLE BOY (sympathetically) Aw--GENE laughs as another Juvenile Officer enters and pauses tolook at the children. His name is RAY. RAY What gang does he belong to? GENE Give him a couple of years. RAY Where's your mamma, honey? LITTLE BOY I don't know.RAY and GENE exchange looks, then RAY moves across to JUDY--camera following. He looks down at her, consults the filein his hand. RAY Judy--we're ready for you now. JUDY (a mumble) He hates me. RAY What? JUDY He hates me.She rises. RAY leads her to one of the glass-walled offices.Camera moves with them. JIM watches them go. RAY What makes you think he hates you, Judy? JUDY I don't think. I know. He looks at me like I'm the ugliest thing in the world. He doesn't like my friends--he--RAY leads her into the office.Inside small office as JUDY comes in, RAY following. Heindicates a chair for her while he sits down behind a desk. JUDY (continuing) He doesn't like anything about me-- he calls me--he calls me--She starts to cry. She doesn't hide it, but keeps wipingthe tears with the palms of her hands. RAY He makes you feel pretty unhappy? JUDY (crying) He calls me a dirty tramp--my own father! RAY Do you think your father means that? JUDY Yes! I don't know! I mean maybe he doesn't mean it but he acts like he does. We're altogether and we're going to celebrate Easter and catch a double bill. Big deal. So I put on my new dress and I came out and he-- RAY That one? JUDY Yes--he started yelling for a handkerchief--screaming. He grabbed my face and he rubbed all my lipstick off--he rubbed till I thought I wouldn't have any lips left. And all the time yelling at me--that thing--the thing I told you he called me. Then I ran out of the house. RAY Is that why you were wandering around at one o'clock in the morning? JUDY I was just talking a walk. I tried to call the kids but everybody was out and I couldn't find them. I hate my life. I just hate it. RAY You weren't looking for company, were you? JUDY No. RAY Did you stop to talk to anyone, Judy? (she is silent) Do you enjoy that? JUDY No. I don't even know why I do it. RAY Do you think you can get back at your Dad that way? I mean sometimes if we can't get as close to somebody as we'd like we have to try making them jealous--so they'll have to pay attention. Did you ever think of that? JUDY I'll never get close to anybody. RAY Some kids stomped a man on Twelfth Street, Judy. JUDY You know where they picked me up! Twelfth Street! I wasn't even near there! RAY Would you like to go home if we can arrange it? (no answer; to WOMAN OFFICER) Did you notify the parents? WOMAN OFFICER She wouldn't give me their number. RAY What's your number, Judy? We'll see if your Dad will come and get you.JUDY looks up hopefully. RAY Unless you really don't want to go home. (silence) Would you rather stay here?Camera moves close on JUDY. She looks up and speaks veryquietly. JUDY Lexington 05549.The wail of a siren is heard. JUDY looks off through theglass wall toward JIM. RAY is heard dialing.Med. shot. JIM's bench. JIM sits with his head back, eyesclosed. As the siren mounts louder, JIM opens his mouth andimitates it--a long, forlorn wail.Med. shot, PLATO and NEGRO WOMAN. PLATO smiles faintly andmoves out toward JIM, NEGRO WOMAN following. Camera panswith them. PLATO sits by JIM. She stands over them. JIM'swailing continues.Med. shot. JIM, PLATO, NEGRO WOMAN. An OFFICER moves intoshot. OFFICER Hey!JIM continues for a moment. OFFICER (continuing) Hey! That's enough static out of you. JIM Want me to imitate a stupid cop? OFFICER Cut it out now. I'm warning you. JIM Yes, ma'am.The OFFICER moves out. The NEGRO WOMAN bends over PLATO whois shivering violently. NEGRO WOMAN You shivering, John? You cold?PLATO shakes his head. JIM notices him. JIM Want my jacket?PLATO looks up at JIM. JIM (continuing) You want my jacket? It's warm.PLATO wants it but shakes his head "no."Full shot. JUDY's office. RAY and JUDY seated as before.JUDY is still gazing through the glass. RAY Your mother will be down in a few minutes, Judy-- JUDY (clearing) What? RAY Your mother will be down in a few minutes. JUDY (startled) My mother?RAY signals to a WOMAN OFFICER just outside and leads JUDYto the door.Outside door as RAY turns JUDY over to the WOMAN OFFICER. RAY She's being called for. JUDY You said you'd call my father. RAY Goodbye, Judy. Take it easy.JUDY doesn't answer. RAY goes back inside as camera leadsthe WOMAN OFFICER and JUDY past JIM's bench. Camera stopson JIM, PLATO and the NEGRO WOMAN. JIM stares at JUDY andwhistles but gets no reaction. GENE enters and comes to theNEGRO WOMAN. GENE John Crawford? NEGRO WOMAN Yes, sir. GENE Come with me, John.PLATO rises and goes with GENE, the NEGRO WOMAN following.JIM is alone. He closes his eyes, throws his head back andgives another siren wail as camera moves close on his face. MOTHER (O.S.) Jim!JIM looks up suddenly, scared. Then he smiles mysteriouslyand staggers to his feet.Low angle. Tight three. JIM's parents and grandma framedin the doorway, frozen. They are all dressed in eveningclothes. The MOTHER is a very chic but rather hard-facedwoman. The FATHER is an unfeathered man. The GRANDMA isthe smallest, also very chic and very bright-eyed.Med. shot. JIM as he faces them. JIM Happy Easter.Tight shot. The family. MOTHER Where were you tonight? They called us at the club and I got the fright of my life!Silence. FATHER Where were you tonight, Jimbo?Close shot. JIM. He says nothing.Close shot. FATHER laughing uncomfortably.Med. shot. JIM. JIM You think I'm funny?JIM turns suddenly and walks to the glass wall of the officebehind which PLATO, the NEGRO WOMAN and GENE are visible.He looks through the glass partition which separates himfrom PLATO. JIM (continuing) Why didn't you take my jacket?Inside office. JIM is seen through the glass. He movesaway. PLATO is still shivering, cracking his knuckles. GENE Do you know why you shot those puppies, John? (silence) Is that what they call you or do you have a nickname? PLATO (a murmur) Plato. NEGRO WOMAN You talk to the man nice now, hear? He's going to help you. PLATO Nobody can help me. GENE Can you tell me why you killed the puppies, Plato? PLATO No, sir. I just went next door to look at them like I always do. They were nursing on their mother and I did it. I guess I'm just no good? GENE What do you think's going to happen, you do things like that? PLATO I don't know. End up in the electric chair? GENE Where did you get the gun? PLATO In my mother's drawer. NEGRO WOMAN She keep it to protect herself, sir. She scared without a man in the house. GENE Where's your mother tonight, Plato? PLATO She's away. NEGRO WOMAN Seems like she's always going somewhere. She got a sister in Chicago and she go for the holiday. She says her sister is all the family she has. GENE Where's your father?PLATO is silent. NEGRO WOMAN They not together, sir. We don't see him in a long time now. GENE Do you hear from him, son?PLATO looks up as JIM and his family move into the nextoffice. JIM smiles at PLATO, who returns it feebly, thenlooks away--embarrassed. GENE You know if the boy ever talked to a psychiatrist? PLATO (smiling a bit) Head-shrinker? NEGRO WOMAN (laughing) Oh, Mrs. Crawford don't believe in them! GENE Well maybe she better start.Other office. JIM, his parents, GRANDMA and RAY aregathered in the small room. JIM is humming THE RIDE OF THEVALKRYIES to himself as if he had absolutely no interest inwhat is happening around him. RAY suspects this issomething more than mere disinterest, so lets the humming goon, in order to discover its real purpose. GRANDMA watcheseverything like a tennis match, reacting with soft littlesounds of terror or astonishment or sympathy. No one paysany attention to her. For a moment no one talks. RAYwatches JIM as he hums. Then the FATHER shakes his head andlooks up. FATHER I don't see what's so bad about taking a little drink. RAY You don't? FATHER No. I definitely don't. I did the sa-- RAY He's a minor, Mr. Stark, and it looks to me like he had more than a little drink. FATHER (chuckling) Say, listen-- MOTHER (to JIM: in intimate, half-humorous disapproval) Jim--don't hum.JIM merely rolls his eyes at her, then away--but continueshis humming. FATHER I guess I cut pretty loose in my day too. MOTHER Really, Frank? When was that? FATHER Listen--can't you wait till we get home? RAY Whoa! Whoa! I know you're a little upset but-- FATHER Sorry. RAY What about you, Jim? Got anything to say for yourself?JIM stops humming and shrugs. RAY Not interested, huh?JIM shakes his head. MOTHER Can't you answer? What's the matter with you anyhow? FATHER He's just loaded, honey. MOTHER I was talking to Jim. FATHER (to RAY) Let me just explain to you--we just moved here, y'understand? The kid has no friends yet and-- JIM Tell him why we moved here. FATHER Hold it, Jim. JIM You can't protect me. FATHER (to JIM) You mind if I try? You have to slam the door in my face? (to RAY) I try to get to him--what happens? (to JIM) Don't I give you everything you want? A bicycle--you get a bicycle. A car-- JIM You buy me many things. Thank you. FATHER Not just buy! You hear all this talk about not lovely your kids enough. We give you love and affection, don't we?Silence; JIM is fighting his emotion but his eyes grow wet. FATHER Then what is it? I can't even touch you anymore but you pull away. I want to understand you. Why'd you get drunk? You must have had a reason.JIM stares straight ahead, trying not to listen. FATHER Was it because we went to that party? (silence) You know what kind of drunken brawls those parties turn into-- it's no place for kids. MOTHER A minute ago you said you didn't care if he drinks. GRANDMA He said a little drink. JIM (exploding) You're tearing me apart! MOTHER What? JIM Stop tearing me apart! You say one thing and he says another and then everybody changes back-- MOTHER That's a fine way to behave! GRANDMA (smiling) Well you know who he takes after! RAY Outside, Jim. Come outside.RAY pushes him out the door firmly, and into office vacatedby PLATO and GENE. RAY Excuse us a minute? FATHER (very overwrought) Sure. Sure.GENE's office. RAY and JIM alone. JIM Someone should put poison in her epsom salts. RAY Grandma?No answer. JIM turns away from RAY. JIM Get lost. RAY Hang loose, boy. I'm warning you. JIM Wash up and go home. RAY Big tough character. You don't kid me, pal. How come you're not wearing your boots?Suddenly JIM flings himself at RAY who deftly flips him pastand drops him near the desk. RAY (continuing) Too bad you didn't connect. You could have gone to Juvenile Hall. That's what you want, isn't it? JIM No. RAY Sure it is. You want to bug us till we have to lock you up. Why? JIM Leave me alone. RAY No. JIM I don't know why--! RAY Go on--don't give me that. Someone giving you hard looks? JIM I just get so-- (fighting tears) Boy, sometimes the temperature goes way up. RAY (suddenly gentle) Okay. Okay. Let it out.JIM starts crying. RAY You feel like you want to blow your wheels right now? JIM All the time! I don't know what gets into me--but I keep looking for trouble and I always--I swear you better lock me up. I'm going to smash somebody--I know it. RAY Try the desk.JIM smashes his fist against it, letting loose for a moment.RAY watches, then sits near him. RAY That why you moved from the last town? 'Cause you were in trouble? You can talk about it if you want to--I know about it anyway. Routine check. JIM And they think they are protecting my by moving. RAY You were getting a good start in the wrong direction back there. Why did you do it? JIM Mess that kid up?RAY just nods. JIM (continuing) He called me chicken. RAY And your folks didn't understand? JIM They never do. RAY So then you moved? JIM They think I'll make friends if we move. Just move and everything'll be roses and sunshine. RAY But you don't think that's a solution.JIM is silent; he picks at his nails. RAY (continuing) Things pretty tough for you at home? JIM She eats him alive and he takes it.JIM stares at his family through hole in door. JIM What a zoo! RAY What? JIM A zoo. He always wants to be my pal, you know? But how can I give him anything when he's--I mean I love him and I don't want to hurt him--but I don't know what to do anymore except maybe die. RAY Pretty mixed up? JIM If he could-- RAY "If he could" what? You mean your father? JIM I mean if he had the guts to knock Mom cold once I bet she'd be happy and I bet she'd stop picking. They make mush out of him. Just mush. One thing I know is I never want to be like him. RAY (interrupts) Chicken? JIM I bet you see right through me, don't you?RAY shrugs. JIM How can anyone grow up in this circus? RAY You got me, Jim--but they do. Want some water? JIM (as RAY gets a cup of water from cooler) Boy--if I had one day when I didn't have to be all confused and ashamed of everything--or I felt I belonged some place. RAY (giving him water) Here. Look, will you do something for me? If the pot starts boiling again, will you come and see me before you get yourself in a jam? Even if you just want to talk--come in and shoot the breeze. It's easier sometimes than talking to your folks. JIM Okay-- RAY Any time--day or night. You calmed down enough to go back now? JIM (smiling) You serious?RAY smiles and opens the door.RAY's office as JIM comes towards his MOTHER and forceshimself to kiss her. JIM I'm sorry. MOTHER All right, darling.She rises and takes his arm. They start out through thedoor into the hall, followed by GRANDMA and FATHER. GRANDMA (to RAY) This was all very unfortunate, but he made a mistake and he's sorry-- so we're not going to have any more trouble. He's always been a lovely boy-- JIM Lovely! Grandma--if you tell another lie you're going to turn to stone. RAY Luck, Jim. Don't forget. FATHER (offering RAY three cigars) Have some cigars. RAY No thanks, I don't smoke. FATHER Go on--Give 'em to your friends. RAY No--thanks, very much, Mr. Stark. MOTHER Frank--he doesn't want any.JIM grins at RAY who nods. They all leave. RAY lookingafter them, shakes his head and lights a cigarette. We seeJIM and his family pass through the main door. Waiting toenter, in the custody of some uniformed police, are BUZZ andthe kids we saw at the opening, sullen and truculent. Asthey march into the lobby and JIM grows smaller in thedistance, the music comes up and out. FADE OUT.FADE IN.Low angle. Alley. Morning. A rabbit comes running downthe alley followed by a group of young kids, screaming withpleasure.As camera pans with the group, the littlest, a boy of five,stops near us looking after the disappearing group. Theshouts of the children wane.JUDY rushes out from a backyard beyond him. She is carryingschool books and a bag lunch. She wears a polo coat againstthe winter wind. JUDY (yelling) Beau!The boy, who is her brother, BEAU, looks up but doesn't move.JUDY stops at her gate. A car careens down the alley, pasthim.Long shot. JUDY and BEAU seen through a window in JIM'shouse. JIM is in f.g. looking out through the curtains. Hesmiles. JUDY (yelling) What are you trying to do, get yourself killed? BEAU (laughing) Yes! MOTHER (O.S.) Your eggs are on the table, dear.JIM turns from window and passes camera.Full shot JIM's dining room. The MOTHER is just settling aplate of eggs at JIM's place. They FATHER is seated,drinking coffee and looking at the newspaper. GRANDMA comesin from kitchen. JIM is neatly dressed in tie, tweed jacketand slacks. MOTHER (continuing) Sit down and eat--you'll be late. JIM (approaching table) It'd stick in my throat, Mom. I'm nervous or something-- GRANDMA It's a wonder we don't all have TB or some other terrible disease after living in all those smokey cities! MOTHER Well, drink your milk anyhow. GRANDMA (muttering) There aren't so many factories here. FATHER Mother-- JIM (still standing; he drinks) You make any sandwiches? FATHER My first day of school, mother'd make me eat and by golly I could never even swallow till recess-- MOTHER (bringing bag of lunch from buffet) There's nothing to be nervous about. Here's peanut butter and meat loaf--JIM makes a mouth-stuck-together-with-peanut-butter sound. GRANDMA What did I tell you? Peanut butter! MOTHER Well, there's a thermos of orange juice and some apple-sauce cake in the wax paper to wash it down. GRANDMA I baked that! JIM (kisses her cheek) 'Bye, Mom. MOTHER Goodbye, dear. FATHER (rising) So long, young fella. Knock 'em dead, like your old man used to! JIM Sure-- (gets to door and turns) You know something? I have a feeling we're going to stay here. FATHER And listen--watch out about the pals you choose--Know what I mean? Don't let them choose you--But JIM is on his way out.Full shot. JIM's backyard as JIM comes out of the kitchendoor into the early sunshine. JUDY (O.S.) Come out of the alley, Beau! This is the last time I'm going to call you.JIM blinks, pauses and sees JUDY. He takes off his tie andputs it in his pocket. Then he starts across the backyard,camera panning with him to:Full shot. The Alley with JIM coming out his gate, JUDY andBEAU visible beyond. He stops again. JUDY Beau! All right--go to school alone!She starts down the alley. BEAU skips after her and startstightrope-walking the gutter gravel. JIM (calling) Hey!JUDY glances at him briefly, but continues. JIM follows afew yards, but on his side of the alley. JIM (continuing) Hey, didn't I see you before some place?JUDY ignores him, but something self-conscious happens toher walk. JIM runs across the alley.Med. shot. JUDY stopping as JIM enters. BEAU tight-ropewalking on down the hill. JIM Hi. I saw you before. JUDY Bully for you. JIM You don't have to be unfriendly. JUDY Now that's true! JIM (smiling) See? JUDY "Life is crushing in on me." JIM (smiling) "Life can be beautiful." Hey, I know where it was. JUDY Where what was. JIM Where I saw you. (no answer) Everything going okay now? (no answer) You live around here? JUDY (relieved) Who lives? JIM See, I'm new. JUDY Won't mother be proud. JIM You're really flipped--aren't you.JUDY looks up a little surprised. JIM (continuing) Where's Dawson High School? JUDY You going there? JIM Yeah--why-- JUDY Dig the square wardrobe! JIM (defensively) Yeah. So where's the high school? JUDY (softer) University and 10th--Want to carry my books?An auto horn, stuck, in the distance. JIM I was just getting my car. I could take you.The horn approaches, loud. JUDY The kids take me. JIM Oh.Another angle. JIM and JUDY as the car, horn blowing,wheels into view above them and comes careening into thealley. JUDY sees it and moves a step away from JIM. JUDY I'll bet you're a real yo yo. JIM A what? JUDY (yelling over horn) Goodbye! See you! JIM (yelling) I'm not so bad.JUDY is moving toward the car.Med. shot. Car full of kids as it comes to a jolting stopnear JUDY. The boys wear suede coats, leather jackets,black peggers, boots. Their clothing is not uniform--it isthe air they assume which is uniform: swaggering, self-conscious, piratical. Someone is always combing his hair.The driver is BUZZ, whom we recognize as the leader of thestomp gang we met on Easter. He wears a leather jacket.With him are CHICK, a slight bespectacled lad; CRUNCH,BUZZ's first lieutenant; COOKIE, a hanger-on; GOON, acharacter; and the girls HELEN and MILLIE. The kids arescreaming as BUZZ jams on the brakes. JUDY comes forward.JIM hangs back. BUZZ Stella-a-a-a!JUDY comes to them quickly, smiling. JUDY Steady Marlon! BUZZ Wanna make the colored lights go around and around?JUDY and BUZZ kiss ardently and without love. JIM goes forhis car. BUZZ (looks after JIM then at JUDY) What's that? JUDY A new disease. BUZZ (a little suspicious) Friend of yours? JUDY I'm glad they let you out. BUZZ Nobody chickened. JUDY I heard about it. You're lucky he lived. BUZZ They always live.During this JIM has gotten his car and has driven up. JIM Where's University and 10th? JUDY (pointing right) That way! CHICK (pointing left) That way! BUZZ (pointing up) That way!Simultaneously, the kids laugh wildly. The radio blares.JUDy lays her head on BUZZ's shoulder and his arm goesaround her as the car zooms away. JIM looks after them amoment, then follows. DISSOLVE TO:Close shot. Bicycle rack. Wheels spin in, one afteranother and drive straight into their slots. As the nearestbike moves in:Med. shot. PLATO just getting off his motor scooter. Hecomes forward, passes camera which pans with him thenstops--as the school is suddenly revealed. Music startswith a crash and keeps mounting through the following.PLATO sighs and moves away from us to join the parade ofstudents filling the Main approach.Parking lot as cars scream into their places noisily. JIMgets out of one and comes forward. A motorcycle roars by,just missing him. JIM stares off and starts to move ascamera pans with him to:Another angle. School. Another crash of music. JIM movestoward the parade.Full shot. Mid-way down main approach. A number of kidspass, gossiping happily as they greet each other for thefirst time since vacation. Camera searches over them andstops upon our special group moving toward us--BUZZ, JUDYand the rest, all abreast. Others must park at theirpassage or be elbowed out of the way, staring resentfully,but not daring to challenge the group's priority. PLATOruns forward, past them.Door from within bouncing from hand to hand as studentsenter. PLATO moves through the door and disappears in amilling of kids. JUDY enters with her group and moves onwith them.Med. shot. Monitor (inside corridor). The Monitor is anathletic letter-sweater boy with an arm brassard that bearsthe letters "HC". Kids pour past him. JIM enters. JIM Hi--can you tell we where I go? I'm just starting here. MONITOR (pointing at brassard) Mr. Bassett's office--203. He'll tell you where your home room is-- JIM Thanks a lot.JIM moves out.Angle shot. Corridor. Shooting past a row of steel lockers.The clash and slam of doors as kids throw in coats, pull outbooks and primp for the day ahead. PLATO comes to hislocker, which is the nearest, and opens it.Full shot. Corridor. JIM moves toward us from the distance.Crowded at the entrance to a classroom in f.g. are JUDY andher pals. They are sneaking a smoke, passing the cigarettefrom one cupped hand to another. As JIM comes near, JUDYsees him. So do the others. They fold their arms acrosstheir chests and whistle "We are the girls of theinstitute"--all but JUDY. JIM glances at her and continueson past camera. A bell starts ringing crazily over the music.Close shot. PLATO. He is straightening his tie in themirror. Above it, pasted to the locker door, is a still ofAlan Ladd. In the mirror we can see JIM moving past. PLATOsees him too. He wheels around and stares. PLATO (to himself) Hi.The strident music of the students diminishes. The ringingof the bell stops. There remain only JIM's footsteps.Long shot. JIM moving off down the corridor. PLATO is inf.g. looking after him. He slams his locker and startsafter JIM, moving at the same speed and hovering near thewall. The footsteps of the two boys echo stonily. They arealone. JIM stops at a bulletin board near a bend in thecorridor. PLATO stops too.Bulletin board. JIM looking at the notices. PLATO driftsin several yards away and hangs near the wall watching JIMwho doesn't see him. JIM reads:Insert: Bulletin board, "Attention All Juniors and Seniors"--Planetarium field trip--2 pm--Sharp!"Another angle. JIM and PLATO as JIM turns from bulletinboard and starts away. PLATO (clearing his throat) Hi. JIM Hi there. PLATO You remember me? JIM No. I don't think so-- PLATO I'm sorry--I made a mistake.JIM starts toward camera as PLATO after another look, turnsin the opposite direction and walks away from us, smashinghis fist against the wall as he goes. JIM stops, full incamera. His face clouds, trying to remember. He turns fullaround to look after PLATO, then turns back and continues onhis way. The footsteps fade. DISSOLVE TO:Full shot. Planetarium seen from the parking lot--a greatdome crowns it--the city lies below. Camera picks up JIM'scar maneuvering through the crowded lot. In b.g. a fewother late-comers are dashing up steps to Planetarium. JIMdrives into a small lot behind observator, parks, then runsto observatory entrance.Full shot. Lobby as JIM runs through, opens door of theaterand passes inside.Long shot. Sky full of stars seen past JIM's head.Darkness. This is not our sky. It is a replica of itprojected onto the dome of the Planetarium. The stars slidetheir tentative ways in an ever-changing pattern. One ofthem is much larger than the rest and increases in size aswe watch. Music of the spheres is heard--a high threateningtremolo. LECTURER (O.S.) For many days before the end of our earth people will look into the night sky and notice a star, increasingly bright and increasingly near.JIM looks around for a seat and passes down aisle. Seenbeyond him is the projector, moving slowly, its great dumb-bell head sparkling with pin-points of light. JIM takes aseat in front row. PLATO, in the row behind him, moves overa seat to be nearer. They exchange looks.Full shot. Normal students watching intently. LECTURER (O.S.) As this star approaches us, the weather will change. The great polar fields of the north and south will rot and divide, and the seas will turn warmer.Low angle. LECTURER. A dry, elderly man in a stiff whitecollar. He is seated at a desk, the light from the readinglamp spilling upward onto his face. LECTURER The last of us search the heavens and stand amazed. For the stars will still be there, moving through their ancient rhythms.Angle shot. Students. Some watching, some taking notes.An OLD LADY TEACHER in f.g. taps the heads of two kids inthe row before her. They stop their whispering. She smilesat them. LECTURER (O.S.) The familiar constellations that illuminate our night will seem as they have always seemed, eternal, unchanged and little moved by the shortness of time between our planet's birth and its demise.Med. shot. PLATO staring upward. LECTURER (O.S.) Orion, the Hunter.PLATO looks off.Med. shot. JIM (from PLATO's angle). JIM is seated in therow ahead of PLATO. His lips are parted as he looks up. JIM Boy! PLATO (leaning forward) What? JIM (surprised) Once you been up there, you know you been some place! LECTURER (O.S.) Gemini, the Twins.Two shot. JUDY and BUZZ. BUZZ has his arm around her. Heis nuzzling her ear. She is blandly watching the dome. LECTURER (O.S.) (continuing) Cancer, the Crab.BUZZ pokes JUDY who looks at him. He curves his wristtoward her, opening and closing his first two fingers likethe pincers of a crab. BUZZ I'm a crab!She laughs. So do the others.Med. shot. JIM (PLATO behind). Seen from JUDY's angle. JIMturns at the sound of the laughter, and smiles. LECTURER (O.S.) Taurus, the Bull. JIM (in good imitation) Moo!He waits for approval.Angle shot. JUDY, BUZZ and group (seen from JIM's angle).He is in f.g. They are staring at him. Nobody laughs. CRUNCH (flat) Yeah, moo. BUZZ Moo. That's real cute. Moo. GOON Hey, he's real rough-- CRUNCH I bet he fights with cows. BUZZ Moo.They turn from him. JIM withers and looks front. JUDYsmiles a little and looks away so the others cannot noticeher amusement. LECTURER (O.S.) Sagittarius and Aries--all as they have ever been.PLATO leans in and touches JIM's shoulder, lightly at first,then harder. JIM turns to him. PLATO You shouldn't monkey with him. JIM What? PLATO He's a wheel. So's she. It's hard to make friends with them. JIM I don't want to make friends.He turns back, unhappy at having revealed himself.Another shot. JUDY, BUZZ, CRUNCH. JIM seen in b.g. Thekids are whispering among themselves and pointing at JIM,who looks up and notices. He is getting uncomfortable. LECTURER (O.S.) And while the flash of our beginning has not yet traveled the light years into distance--Full shot. The dome. The star rushes nearer, loominglarger and larger. The music rises in tension and volume. LECTURER (O.S.) Has not yet been seen by planets deep within the other galaxies, we will disappear into the blackness of the space from which we came.Two shot. JIM and PLATO staring upward, cringing back intotheir seats as the light on their faces increases. Music isup loud.Full shot. The dome seen past PLATO's head. The heavensgrow brighter as the star plummets near. Music at crescendo. LECTURER (O.S.) Destroyed as we began in a burst of gas and fire.The sky is blasted by a wild flash of light. Music reachesexplosion. The stars appear again.Moving shot. Faces of normal kids watching seriously--veryimpressed. LECTURER (O.S.) (continuing) The heavens are still and cold once more. In all the complexity of our universe and the galaxies beyond, the Earth will not be missed.Med. shot. JIM and PLATO looking up. LECTURER (O.S.) Through the infinite reaches of space, the problems of Man seem trivial and naive indeed. And Man, existing alone, seems to be an episode of little consequences.PLATO ducks his head down on the back of JIM's chair. JIMlooks at him. LECTURER (O.S.) That's all. Thank you very much.The lights go on. The rustle and confusion of kidsstretching after sitting too long. Scattered applause. JIMrises and ruffles PLATO's hair. JIM Hey, it's over. The world ended.PLATO looks up at him. PLATO What does he know about Man alone?Med. shot. LECTURER as he reaches over and turns a dial."Morning Song" by Grieg comes on softly.Low angle. OLD LADY TEACHER rising. She stares around atthe bustling students and claps her hands sharply, but thenoise is barely heard above the tumult. TEACHER (shrill) May I have your attention? May I please have your attention? Classes will meet at the busses outside. May I have your attention? (to herself) The heck with it.She picks up her coat and bag.Planetarium parking lot. School busses and autos, some newand some heaps, are parked in f.g. Beyond is the dome ofthe Planetarium. Kids mill about, some already driving offin their cars. One bus, already full, pulls past camera.Med. shot. Front of bus seen from within. Driver in f.g.Kids swarm up the steps and enter. PLATO is among them, butkeeps looking back for JIM. PLATO boards the bus and pausesnear the driver to peer through windshield. His face clouds.Long shot. JUDY and group. Seen from PLATO's angle throughwindshield. They are standing idly in a loose line nearBUZZ's car. They are looking back toward Planetarium.Med. shot. Front of bus, seen from within. PLATO turnssuddenly and pushes his way past the kids who are boarding. PLATO Excuse me. Excuse me.Full shot. Parking lot. Bus in f.g. Beyond it JUDY andthe group are visible. PLATO squeezes out. MALE TEACHER John, where you going? PLATO I forgot something. I'll get a hitch.PLATO moves quickly past the teacher who climbs in. Thedoor slams, the bus moves away. PLATO stops and looks afterit. The last cars are clearing the lot. Only JIM's andBUZZ's remain. PLATO looks at the small, waiting group.Med. shot. The group seen from the rear. PLATO in thedistance facing them. BUZZ What you looking at?Med. shot. PLATO wild-eyed with fear. PLATO Nothing.He runs off, camera panning with him. His goal is thePlanetarium Entrance, visible beyond. He races toward itfrantically.Med. shot. The group looking off after PLATO. BUZZ,nearest camera, pulls a switch-knife from his pocket andpops the long blade open. JUDY stares at it, then looks upat BUZZ apprehensively. CRUNCH sits down on the bumper andlights a cigarette.Display lobby. Planetarium as PLATO rushes in, out ofbreath, stops and looks around. In distance he sees JIMleaning over the pendulum pit, smoking quietly. PLATOdoesn't move. JIM hasn't even looked up. PLATO (screaming as if he were yelling "fire!") What's your name! JIM Jim. What's yours? PLATO (a little quieter) Plato. It's a nickname.JIM nods. PLATO goes over to him, camera following, untilthey are close together, both leaning over the rail. PLATO Listen, I told you not to fool with them. Now they're waiting for you. JIM I know. That's why I came back. PLATO You scared? JIM I just don't want trouble. PLATO He has a knife. JIM I saw it. Gee, look at that thing swing, will you? Do you think it never stops? PLATO No. It's perpetual motion. JIM Oh, I bet some little guy comes in here at night and pushes it. Go- go-go!PLATO walks cautiously to the door and starts outside,camera following.Long shot. Kids (corner of Observatory) with PLATO leaningout of door, seeing them, pulling back quickly.Inside display lobby as PLATO pulls back through the door.JIM seems to have disappeared. PLATO stares around frightened. PLATO Jim?JIM is looking at another exhibit whose mechanical voice isheard. JIM I'm here. PLATO (coming with him) They're still there!JIM nods. They watch the exhibit a while longer. PLATO Jim--Do you think when the end of the world comes it'll be at night? JIM No. In the morning.PLATO looks up questioning. JIM smiles and shrugs. JIM I just have a feeling.They start moving, camera leading. PLATO If you don't want trouble, I know a place we can go--JIM looks up at him. PLATO It's a big mansion and we could sneak around there and they wouldn't even know. You could be safe--They turn a corner quickly.Doors to balcony (from inside) as JIM and PLATO come to themfrom behind camera, fling the doors open and step outside.Balcony as JIM and PLATO come onto it, lean on the parapet.PLATO points off. PLATO There it is.High long shot. Mansion. (Matte). It is falling intoelegant ruin, casting long afternoon shadows on the greatlawns and promenades.Closeup PLATO looking urgently at JIM. PLATO Should we go?Two shot. JIM and PLATO. PLATO's back is to us. JIM lookspast him and sees something. JIM (quietly) The shadows are getting long.PLATO turns to look too.Long high shot. Parking lot. JIM's car is where he left it.Into the driveway, like logs driven before a sea, theshadows of the waiting kids appear and advance until thekids themselves come into view. They pause there a moment,then look up. HELEN (smiling) Le soleil tombe dans la mer.Laughter. The kids scatter along the wall at the foot ofthe balcony stairs. BUZZ goes to JIM's car, knife in hand,and stands silently.Low angle. Two shot. JIM and PLATO staring down frombalcony parapet. At last JIM moves out past camera.Low angle. Long shot. JIM and PLATO. JUDY in f.g. Thetwo boys walk down the stairs. Camera pans with them asthey reach parking lot level and start walking past othermembers of the group.Traveling shot. JIM and PLATO coming forward.Dolly shot. BUZZ from JIM's angle. As camera moves intoward BUZZ standing alone at the car, he suddenly bendsdown and slashes JIM's tire. Camera stops. There is thehiss of air escaping. BUZZ straightens and smiles past camera.Close shot. JIM inhaling sharply in shock and suppressedanger.Full shot over JIM's car. Group in b.g. motionless. JIMand PLATO approach the car. JIM stops and looks down. BUZZstands smiling and puts away the knife.Close shot. Rear wheel. The tire slashed, the wheel restson the ground.Full shot. Car. Shooting between group and BUZZ towardbacks of JIM and PLATO, who are looking down at car whichrests on its rims. JIM turns and moves toward group. Hestops, looks from one to the other and smiles nervously.Then he looks straight at BUZZ. JIM (wearily) You know something? BUZZ What? JIM (reproachfully) You watch too much television.Med. shot. The group and JIM. JUDY has come to BUZZ,stands on the wall above him. BUZZ Hey, he's real abstract and different. JIM I'm cute, too.Suddenly GOON starts clucking softly like a chicken. One byone the others pick it up. BUZZ, the last, crows. Silence.Med. shot. The group and JIM. JIM Meaning me? BUZZ What? JIM Chicken?The group gives a quick, short laugh.Med. shot. JIM as he takes off his glasses, smiles. Shakeshis head disapprovingly. JIM You shouldn't call me that.Close shot. PLATO watching anxiously.Med. shot. BUZZ with JUDY watching above him. JIM entersshot until he is close to BUZZ's face. He looks up at JUDY.Camera closes in until we are tight on the three. The headsare nearly touching. JIM (softly to JUDY) You always at ringside? You always travel in this rank company?BUZZ clutches JIM's hair and jerks his head up. He cracksJIM smartly across the face with the palm of his hand.Close shot. JUDY looking at JIM. Her eyes clear inrecognition.Another angle. The group and JIM as JIM tears free andcomes at BUZZ, slugging. But BUZZ, with a laugh, leaps ontothe parapet and turns, the knife in his hand again. JIMstops short. The group and PLATO move in around him. JIM I thought only punks fought with knives. BUZZ Who's fighting? This is the test, man. It's a crazy game. HELEN Les jeux de courage!Close-up. CRUNCH. He is smiling. His arms are around theshoulders of the kids who flank him. CRUNCH (wetting his lips) Machismo. Machismo.Med. shot. Group. JIM Machismo? BUZZ Somebody find him a knife.Close shot. PLATO seen between heads of MIL and COOKIE.COOKIE holds up a switch knife and tosses it over into thecircle. PLATO Jim!Full shot. Circle as the knife falls at JIM's feet. JIMstoops and picks up his weapon, then faces BUZZ. Then hesprings his blade. BUZZ You know the action? No cutting. Just sticking--jab real cool.BUZZ hops from the parapet. They begin stalking each other.BUZZ slides his knife from hand to hand trying to hypnotizeJIM. Suddenly he pokes out and pricks JIM's shirt. Thegroup sighs "Ole!" JIM makes no effort at self-defense.Silence. BUZZ pricks JIM again, "Ole!" BUZZ (as he maneuvers) What you waiting on, Toreador? I thought you wanted some action!JIM cuts out half-heartedly. BUZZ Big brave bull. Hah! Toro! Hah! Hah! GOON Moo! BUZZ Come on--Fascinate us. Impress us. What's happening? Let's go! JIM I don't want trouble. BUZZ (furious suddenly) You crud chicken! You're wasting our time!BUZZ viciously slaps JIM across the face. JIM lashes outand misses. BUZZ hops back. BUZZ Yeah--that's pretty close. How about a little closer, Toreador? Cut off a button and you get to join the club!Outside entrance of parking lot. A uniformed GUIDE ofmiddle-age stares past camera. Cries of "Ole," are heard inthe distance. GUIDE (turning) Mr. Minton! Mr. Minton! Trouble!The LECTURER appears running. He stops short at what hesees, and blinks in the sunlight. GUIDE Look. There's your audience. LECTURER Oh, I don't think so. From the school?Inside circle. JIM is covered with sweat and about to drop.He is getting the worst of it, still refusing to defendhimself.Close shot. PLATO. He is looking on in despair. GROUP Ole! Ole!Suddenly, with a cry, PLATO pushes through.Inside circle as PLATO comes through. His eyes are wild.He holds a tire chain in his hand. MIL Buzzy! Look out! He's got a chain! BUZZ (smiling as he sees PLATO) Hey! Chicken Little!BUZZ trips PLATO quickly and kicks him while he's down.CRUNCH grabs the chain. JIM All right--you want it, you got it!Suddenly JIM transforms. He bores forward expertly--pricksBUZZ again and again. Cries of Ole greet him. BUZZ issurprised.Full shot. Group. We hear only the breathing of thecombatants. Beyond we see the GUIDE approaching swiftly.The LECTURER trails at a safe distance.Closeup. CRUNCH. He looks up. His smile fades. CRUNCH Honk. Let's split.Group as they look off and see the GUIDE and LECTURERapproach. BUZZ and JIM are both breathing hard. PLATO isgetting to his feet. BUZZ Split for what? Couple old poopheads?He folds up his knife and puts it away. So does JIM. JIM You satisfied or you want more? BUZZ How 'bout you? Say the word and you're cold, Jack--you're dead. JUDY Buzzie--we better get out of here. BUZZ What's eating you, Judy? You want him alive? JIM Where can we meet? BUZZ Know the Millertown bluff? COOKIE The bluff, Buzz! That's dangerous up there. BUZZ Draw him a picture, Chicken Little. Eight o'clock. Cookie, you call Moose and get a couple cars. We're going to have us some real kicks. Little chickie-run. You been on chickie-runs before? JIM Sure--that's all I do.The GUIDE bursts in among them. The LECTURER remains on thefringe. GUIDE All right--all of you--start moving! JUDY You mean l'il ol' us? What's the matter with the nice man? GUIDE Don't clown with me. BUZZ Why'nt you go suck on something sweet? GUIDE You think you're tough? I got a son twice your size and I can still handle him. LECTURER Don't lose control, Mr. Jamison. I think if we just explain-- GUIDE Explain to these? They think they own the world! CRUNCH The world is round! MIL The world is flat! COOKIE All the world's a stage!There is wild laughter from the kids as they close aroundthe GUIDE and start edging him away, up the steps toward thePlanetarium balcony. KIDS The world goes round the sun! Goodbye proud world! I got the world on a string! The world's my oyster! Hey! A fish-eater! Brain food.They are gone. The LECTURER looks after them then comes toJIM. JIM looks down at his shirt. There are spots of blood.PLATO opens it, spits on a handkerchief and starts to wipethe blood away. LECTURER (smiling wanly, to JIM) Sometimes the world is too much with us, isn't it, son? What was the disturbance? JIM Nothing. LECTURER You're bleeding. Are you all right? JIM I scratched my mosquito bites. I'm fine.LECTURER hesitates. JIM I'm fine--thanks!LECTURER goes. JIM impatiently closes his shirt. PLATO Are you really going to meet them? JIM Who knows. Plato? PLATO What? JIM What's a chickie-run? DISSOLVE TO:Downstairs hall. JIM's house. A single light is burning.JIM steals in from the kitchen, peers cautiously into theliving room, then starts up the stairs. A crash is heardabove. JIM stops, undecided whether to go or stay, thenmoves quickly up the stairs, no longer trying to be quiet.Upper hall. JIM's house as JIM rises into view at the topof stairs. He sees a figure on hands and knees moppingsomething off the rug. Leaklight from the staircase dimsdetails. An apron is tied around the figure's waist and itsbow sticks bravely in the air. JIM Mom?The figure straightens and turns around, smiling. It is theFATHER. He is neatly dressed in his business suit but wearsa Mary Petty apron. FATHER Hiya, Jimbo.JIM leans against the wall, shaking his head and trying notto laugh. The FATHER laughs unhappily, trying to make itall seem a joke. FATHER You thought I was Mom? JIM Yeah! FATHER It's just this get-up. The girl's out and I was bringing Mom's supper. JIM (giggling) And you dropped it? FATHER (laughing too) Yeah! Shh! JIM That's funny! FATHER I better clean this up before she sees it.He starts dabbing among the spilled dishes with a wet cloth.JIM watches him. JIM Let her see. What could happen.The FATHER continues dabbing. JIM Dad--The FATHER looks up at him. JIM Dad--don't. Don't.JIM touches his FATHER's elbow, bringing him to his feet.They look at each other a moment then JIM goes to hisbedroom. The FATHER goes back to mopping up the mess.Inside JIM's room as he comes in, shuts the door and throwshimself miserably on his bed. He writhes as if the pain hefeels were physical. Outside, radios are heard in thenight--tuned to different stations. He feels under hisjacket and holds up his hand to the moonlight. There isblood on it. He reaches up and takes his alarm clock and issetting it as camera glides to his window and holds over therooftops.Full shot. JUDY's backyard. Moonlight. JUDY stands nearcamera looking up at the moon. The radios seem louder outhere. One breaks through. ANNOUNCER Time now for the seven o'clock news. Friends, the next time you go shopping. JUDY'S FATHER (O.S.) Judy.She wheels around.Long shot. The FATHER standing erect on back porch,silhouetted against a window. JUDY'S FATHER What are you wishing for, Judy?Med. shot. JUDY. She hasn't moved. JUDY (softly) I wasn't wishing. I was looking at the moon.Full shot. Backyard featuring the FATHER. We see him nowas a tall and handsome man. There is something boyish andappealing about him. JUDY'S FATHER (singing lightly) "Man in the Moon, how came you there-- Up in the sky where you are shining-- Floating so high in the frosty air--? Oh, say--Man in the Moon!"--JUDY comes forward, stands below him on the step. Her lookis adoring. JUDY (astonished) How did you know that? JUDY'S FATHER We used to sing it in school. (smiles) Don't look at me with such horror. They had schools in those days. JUDY But the same song. I think it's fantastic! JUDY'S FATHER We were romantic then too-- JUDY Are you and Mom home tonight? JUDY'S FATHER No. Why? JUDY Nothing, only it'd be nice to spend an evening together for a change. JUDY'S FATHER With us old creeps? Come on, we have to eat. JUDY (rising) Daddy--He looks at her. JUDY Good evening. JUDY'S FATHER Hi.He turns away and goes into the house. She hesitates andthen follows. Something in the moods has changed. He hasneglected to hold the door for her.Dining room. JUDY's house as the FATHER comes to the headof the table and takes his seat. Three places are set.JUDY follows. She stands above his chair, looking down athim as he drinks his tomato juice. JUDY (quietly, afraid) Didn't you forget something? JUDY'S FATHER What?JUDY doesn't answer, but leans down and kisses him quicklyon the lips. JUDY'S FATHER (continuing; shocked) What's the matter with you?JUDY freezes, frightened. He collects himself a little. JUDY'S FATHER (continuing) You're too old for that kind of stuff, kiddo. I thought you stopped doing that long ago. JUDY (very hurt) I didn't want to stop.The mother enters briskly from another part of the house--anattractive, brittle woman of thirty-five. JUDY'S MOTHER Didn't want to stop what? JUDY'S FATHER Nothing. JUDY I was talking to Dad. JUDY'S FATHER I didn't kiss her so it's a big thing. JUDY'S MOTHER (calling to kitchen) Bertha! You can serve the souffle! (to FATHER) Fish souffle. (to JUDY) You don't have to stand there, darling. Drink your tomato juice.JUDY slides into her chair reluctantly and unfolds her napkin. JUDY I guess I just don't understand anything. JUDY'S FATHER I'm tired, Judy. I'd like to change the subject. JUDY Why? JUDY'S FATHER I'd like to, that's all. Girls your age don't do that. You need an explanation? JUDY (very low) Girls don't love their father? Since when? Since I got to be sixteen?She half-rises to kiss him again. JUDY'S FATHER Stop it now! Sit down!Suddenly the FATHER slaps her. Even as he does it he is asstunned as JUDY. The mother stops eating. She has neverseen such a display and is shocked. He tries to controlhimself by buttering a piece of bread. There is a terriblesilence into which BEAU enters in his pajamas. He runs tohis FATHER's chair, then halts--looking from face to face.The FATHER puts an arm around him, hugs him almost savagely. JUDY'S FATHER (thickly) Hi, rascal. BEAU (hushed) Hi.JUDY rises, weeping. JUDY May I please be excused?She starts out. The FATHER rises and follows after her. JUDY'S FATHER (softly) Hey, hey, Glamorpuss. I'm sorry.She leaves the room, interrupting the joke he was going tomake. He turns back to the table and sits down. The MOTHERrises and comes to him. JUDY'S FATHER (continuing) I don't know what to do. All of a sudden she's a problem.The mother stands behind his chair. She tips his head backagainst her body and kneads his neck and shoulders. JUDY'S MOTHER She'll outgrow it, dear. It's just the age. BEAU (in a sudden burst) The atomic age!The door slams. JUDY'S MOTHER (kissing her husband's hair) It's the age when nothing fits.Inside JIM's room. We see him lying on his bed as before.His eyes are open. The alarm clock goes off. JIM starts asif shot, then stops the wild ringing. The time is seven-forty-five. He makes no move to leave the bed. There is alight tap on the door, then it opens and the FATHER isthere, seen in light from the hall and still wearing the apron. FATHER You awake? JIM Yes. FATHER Listen--I took a steak out of the freezer. I thought we could have a real old-fashioned stag party--just the two of us, what do you say? JIM I'm not hungry.The FATHER turns away. JIM Hey--I want to ask you something. FATHER (happily) Shoot, Jimbo. JIM Suppose you knew that you had to do something very dangerous--where you have to prove something you need to know--a question of honor. Would you do it? FATHER (laughing) Is there some kind of trick answer? JIM What would you do, Dad? FATHER (evading) I wouldn't do anything hasty. Let's get a little light on the subject.The FATHER turns on the light and looks at JIM who is nowsitting on the edge of the bed. He removes his jacket andthe bloody shirt is revealed. The FATHER stares. JIM Blood. FATHER How'd that happen! What kind of trouble you in? JIM The kind we've been talking about. Can you answer me now? FATHER Listen--nobody should make a snap decision--This isn't something you just--we ought to consider all the pros and cons-- JIM We don't have time. FATHER We'll make time. Where's some paper. We'll make a list and if we're still stuck then we ought to get some advice--He goes out, to the study next door. JIM rises. JIM What can you do when you have to be a man? FATHER Well, now-- JIM Just give me a direct answer! (pause) You going to stop me from going, Dad? FATHER You know I never stop you from anything. Believe me--you're at a wonderful age. In ten years you'll look back on this and wish you were a kid again. JIM Ten years? Now, Dad--I need an answer now! FATHER I just want to show you how foolish you are. When you're older you'll laugh at yourself for thinking this is so important--During this, JIM has kicked off his shoes and put on hisboots and jacket and goes out.Living room featuring stairs. JIM comes running down thestairs and out the kitchen door. FATHER (O.S.) Jim? Will you listen? You can't go out till we--Jim!The FATHER comes down the stairs, goes to the front door andcalls: FATHER Jim? Jim!He goes to kitchen door, calls again, gets no answer, comesback into the living room, sees he is still wearing theapron. He rips it off and throws it down--then starts forthe stairs. DISSOLVE TO:The Plateau. Moonlight. Wind shrieks over the exposedplateau, which is several hundred yards long. It cuts intothe darkness like the prow of a ship and ends in empty air.A dozen cars are scattered about, defining a sort of runwayin the center. There are twenty kids present, but verylittle talk. Most of them belong to BUZZ's group but thereare a few whom we have not met before. They stand in smallclots, murmuring and smoking. The atmosphere is strungtightly, like the moments before a dawn attack. In b.g.near the cliff's edge, are two cars of similar make andmodel. They face away from camera toward the edge of theplateau. There are no headlights anywhere...blackoutconditions.MOOSE, a boy in a leather jacket and cheap yachting capstands guard between the cars, his back to us. His handsare on his hips. His legs are spread. Some girls drift in.Another angle. Plateau featuring PLATO as he wandersthrough the crowd searching for JIM. He passes BUZZ's carwhere BUZZ, JUDY and the rest are eating hamburgers. Theyhave all changed into fighting wardrobe. BUZZ (calling out) Hey, Chicken-Little.PLATO stops. BUZZ Where's Toreador? He beg off? PLATO He's not scared of you. BUZZ (laughing) Yeah? (to GOON) Goon! You seen that adolescent type anywheres? COOKIE He won't show. GOON Well, you going to wait all night? I'm getting nervous, man! We got to do something! CRUNCH (looking off) Hey, Buzz! BUZZ What? COOKIE Over there.BUZZ snaps on the spotlight again and swings it off.Full shot. JIM's car as JIM gets out and PLATO runs to him. JIM How'd you get here? PLATO I hitched. JIM Boy, I bet you'd go to a hanging. PLATO My personality's showing again. Should I leave? JIM No. It's okay.BUZZ enters. BUZZ Come on. Let's see what we're driving.JIM gets out; PLATO starts to follow. BUZZ Just him. JIM Stay there.The two boys move away. PLATO looks after them, hurt, thengoes to side of JUDY and stands.Dolly shot. JIM and BUZZ as they come forward. BUZZ What you say your name was? JIM Jim Stark. BUZZ Buzz Gundersen. JIM Hi. BUZZ Glad to meet you.They shake hands briefly as they walk. They come to MOOSEand stop. MOOSE Got some goodies for you, Buzzie-boy. BUZZ Flashlight?MOOSE produces one and hands it to BUZZ who goes to one ofthe guarded cars, motioning JIM to come, too.Closer shot. BUZZ, JIM and MOOSE seen as hood is raised,revealing their faces beneath it. BUZZ explores the motorwith the flashlight. BUZZ Looks good. MOOSE Clean as a whistle. They both got plenty breeze. BUZZ Look good to you? JIM Sure. It's fine. BUZZ Okay.He closes the hood. Group moves across to other car.JUDY and PLATO. The other kids are behind them. JUDY looksto see that their attention isn't on her, then speaksquietly to PLATO. JUDY Is he your friend? PLATO Yes. My best friend. JUDY What's he like? PLATO Oh, I don't know. You have to get to know him. He doesn't say much but when he does you know he means it. He's sincere. JUDY Well, that's the main thing--don't you think so? PLATO Maybe next summer he's going to take me hunting with him--and fishing. I want him to teach me how and I bet he won't get mad if I goof. His name's Jim. It's really James but he likes Jim more. (laughing) People he really likes--he lets call him "Jamie." JUDY Want to finish my hamburger? I only took a bite. PLATO Okay.Full shot. Guarded cars. JIM is close in f.g. at wheel ofhis car. BUZZ is beyond, at wheel of his. Both boys aregunning their engines, listening critically. JIM lets hisidle.JUDY, GOON and group. They watch in silent anticipation.PLATO starts away from them.Traveling shot. PLATO hurrying away from the group. Hestops, looking off.JIM and BUZZ. PLATO in distance. BUZZ Better try the doors. Jump out.JIM opens his door. BUZZ No--quick, man! You got to break quick.JIM shuts his door and tries again. So does BUZZ. Thenboth boys walk forward to the edge. Neither says a word.BUZZ puts his hand on JIM's shoulder.High angle. The edge of the bluff (process). JIM and BUZZare directly below us. Under them the plateau falls steeplyaway in a sheer drop of a hundred feet to the ocean below.Two shot. JIM and BUZZ. JIM is staring below. He isbeginning to perspire. He lights a cigarette. Withouttaking his hand from JIM's shoulder, BUZZ borrows thecigarette from his lips, takes a drag and hands it back.JIM takes another puff then tosses it into the abyss. BUZZ (quietly) This is the edge, boy. This is the end. JIM Yeah. BUZZ I like you, you know? JIM Buzz? What are we doing this for? BUZZ (still quiet) We got to do something. Don't we?Long shot. JIM and BUZZ with PLATO in f.g. JIM and BUZZappear to him as two close friends. Suddenly they break andgo, without speaking further, to their cars. They back upto the opposite end of the plateau, headlights dark. PLATOfollows them with his gaze.Group shot. GOON and others looking up as the cars glide by.Med. shot. JUDY waiting as BUZZ and JIM move into startingposition next to her. JUDY goes to BUZZ. JIM is in b.g.--looking on. JUDY Feel okay? BUZZ Give me some dirt.She bends out of sight for a moment as BUZZ goes on talking,then hands him the dirt. He rubs it into his palms. BUZZ Hey, Toreador! She signals. We head for the edge. The first guy who jumps--chicken!JUDY and BUZZ kiss, without much interest. BUZZ What's happening? JUDY Good luck, Buzz.She starts out, without kissing him again. JIM (calling softly) Judy.Med. shot. JIM's car as JUDY comes to him. JIM Me too.She looks at him a moment then bends and hands him some dirt.Their heads touch for an instant. JIM Thank you.She breaks the look and hurries away.Long shot. The cars. They are lined up in two rows--headlights facing each other. JUDY comes into shot. Whenshe gets near camera, she stops and turns back to face them. BUZZ Hit your lights!Suddenly the headlights of all the cars come on full.Reverse shot. JUDY. She is in the center of the glare.Behind her we see the other kids filing out of their cars,hurrying toward the edge of the bluff. The sound of the twomotors revving then dying and revving again.Inside JIM's car. JIM grips the wheel firmly, relaxes hishands to rub his palms together and crack his knuckles. Hegrips the wheel again. Steps on the accelerator, windinghis engine into a roar. He lets up, looks tensely at--BUZZ in his car. His chin juts forward. He lets go of thewheel, starts to comb his hair.Slow pan shot. Spectators staring off at the cars. A boyhas his arm around the girl in front of him, his cheekagainst hers. Both are looking off. Some of the kids smoke.All are involved in the blasting of engines.PLATO among the spectators near edge of the bluff. He ischewing his lip. Camera pans down to show that the fingersof both his hands are tightly crossed.Close shot. JUDY staring tensely into the glare. Suddenlyshe raises her hands high above her head.Close shot. JIM sweating it out. He leans forward,squinting, ready.Close shot. BUZZ. He puts his comb between his teeth andclamps it hard. He settles himself for the run.Long shot. Plateau. The cars are in close, seen from therear. JUDY is a small distant figure, arms stretched high.The exhaust blasts. Now she drops her arms. The cars leapahead.Med. shot. JUDY. She whirls to see the cars snap by, thenbegins running up the center of the plateau between thelines of spectators.Full shot. Spectators. Shooting over their shoulders asthe cars approach and scream past.Pit shot. Cars. As they approach, gaining speed, andthunder over the camera.Inside JIM's car. (Process). He is tense.Inside BUZZ's car. (Process). His hands hard on the wheel.The comb is still between his teeth. He begins edgingtoward the door on his left.Moving close shot. JUDY biting hard on her finger, as sheruns forward.Close shot. PLATO. Both hands cover his mouth. Thefingers are still crossed.Inside JIM's car. (Process). As he edges to his left. Heis driving with one hand. He opens the door, gets set forhis jump.Inside BUZZ's car. (Process). He reaches for the doorhandle and misses. As he raises his arm to reach again, thestrap of his windbreaker sleeve slips over the handle. Helooks down in panic, then back at the drop ahead. He tugsbut cannot get the sleeve loose.Closeup. PLATO staring. He shuts his eyes tight and keepsthem shut.Shooting at backs of the two cars as they race through therow of lights toward the edge.Inside JIM's car. (Process). His face is soaked. He looksonce toward BUZZ--then ahead. His eyes widen in fear. Heshoves left and flings himself forward, and out.Outside JIM's car as he sprawls forward--into camera.Inside BUZZ's car. (Process). BUZZ leans way forward now.He seems to rise in his seat. His mouth opens and the combfalls out.Full shot spectators staring in disbelief. Suddenly a youthducks his face into the neck of his girlfriend so he cannotsee. At the same instant-- CROWD (in a single breath) Oh!Rear view. Edge of the bluff as the two cars go over.There is NO human sound.Close shot. JIM as he stops rolling.BUZZ's car in flight. (Special effects). The car soarsthrough the night, the vehicle of a terrible journey.Med. shot. BUZZ. (Process). Surprise has gone. He rideslightly on the thrill of his last moment--then suddenly, hisface twists in a spasm of protest and loss.The kids staring at his flight.JIM unaware of the disaster--glad he made it.Low angle. Edge of the bluff. With headlights blazing,both cars dive down.Med. shot. JUDY standing frozen as the spectators shovepast and around her.Wide angle. Edge of the bluff as spectators swarm to it,stand looking down.JIM on hands and knees, trying to rise. Legs rush by him,knock him onto his face.Long shot. (Special effects). Both cars plunge into theocean below.JIM at edge of bluff. He is pushing through spectators. JIM (a harsh whisper) Where's Buzz! Where's Buzz!PLATO working his way through the crowd. PLATO (calling) Jim! Jim!CRUNCH. CRUNCH looks up as he hears JIM's repeated cry.JIM enters behind him, continuing blindly on his way. CRUNCH (tight fury) Down there! Down there is Buzz!JIM looks over the edge.Rear view. Spectators. A siren wail approaches. The kidswheel and scatter, panicking past the camera.Close shot. MOOSE. Looks at JIM. Runs.Close shot. GOON. Turns. Runs.Med. shot. JIM seen between legs of hurrying kids. Thesirens and the pounding of their feet on the hard turf. JIMis sitting on the edge of the bluff. PLATO rushes in, stopsshort as he sees him. PLATO Come on, Jim! We got to get out of here!JIM doesn't move. PLATO grabs his arm and yanks. PLATO Get up! Get up! Come on!JIM stands. PLATO pushes him. PLATO Go on! Move!They start away, PLATO still pushing from behind.Med. shot. JUDY. She is standing alone in the wind on theemptying plateau. JIM and PLATO move past in the distance.JIM sees her and stops.Close shot. JUDY. She is shuddering violently but thereare no tears. She seems not to see or hear or be aware ofanything around her.Full shot. JIM and PLATO watching JUDY. JIM moves towardher, camera panning with him and leaving PLATO behind. JIMstands before JUDY until she notices him. He shakes hishead for all the sorrow he feels, but no words come.Tentatively he offers her his hand. After a moment, shetakes it. She knows only that help is being offered andthat she will accept it with trust. JIM leads her awaytoward the car. DISSOLVE TO:High long shot. JIM's street. Night. There is no movementanywhere. In the house bordering the street a few lightsstill burn. JIM's car approaches out of distance and slowswhen it reaches the alley.Med. shot. JIM's car as it slows and stops. JIM, JUDY andPLATO in the front seat. JUDY has the door open before thecar even stops. She is shaking, agitated and withdrawn. JUDY (hardly audible) This is fine--She gets out and starts away, leaving door open. JIM (calling quietly) Judy. Will you be okay?PLATO looks at him. JUDY hesitates. JIM raises a hand toher in a shy farewell. She smiles vaguely, then hurriesaway from them.Near JIM's backyard (alley). JIM and PLATO. JIM I got to go in. You better get home too. (touches PLATO) Hey--what? PLATO Why don't you come home with me? I mean nobody's home at my house--and I'm not tired, are you? I don't have many--people I can talk to. JIM Who has? PLATO If you want to come we could talk and then in the morning we could have breakfast like my dad used to-- (pauses--then excitedly as though an idea had suddenly struck him) Gee...if you could only have been my father...we could... JIM (interrupting) Hey...you flipped--or something? You better take off... PLATO (suddenly, pleasantly) O.K. G'night. I got to pick up my scooter. See you tomorrow. JIM Yeah.PLATO turns, walks up the alley to the street. JIM goesinto his kitchen door.Hallway. JUDY's house. Three doors open onto it: one isclosed--this is JUDY's room:--another, leading into BEAU'sroom is open, but the room beyond is dark: the third, alsoopen, reveals the bedroom of JUDY's parents. As JUDY comesinto the hallway, the parents, who are reading in theirbeds, look up. JUDY hesitates, then starts toward her ownroom. BEAU (O.S.) (quietly) Hello, little cute sister.JUDY stops. BEAU appears at his door in white pajamas, asmall ghost. JUDY looks at him. BEAU Hello, darling, baby-pie, glamor- puss, sweetie--JUDY touches BEAU's head and tries to smile. JUDY'S FATHER (calling from his bed) Beau! You belong in bed!BEAU flees. JUDY turns without another glance at herparents, and opens the door of her room.Inside bedroom of JUDY's parents. As JUDY slams her bedroomdoor o.s., the FATHER reacts. Perhaps, he wishes she hadgiven him a chance to say goodnight. The MOTHER, who usereading glasses, looks up at the slam. Then she looks overat her husband, shrugs when she catches his gaze, and goesback to her magazine.Inside JIM's living room. The television is on, but only ahum comes from it, and the screen is a flickering gray. TheFATHER sits lumpily in a chair by the fireplace, stilldressed but with his collar open. The sound of JIM's stepin the dining room makes him open his eyes. Fear of facinghis son makes him shut them again. The boy comes in, abottle of milk in his hand. Seeing his FATHER there, hestops short--his impulse is to flee. Instead he comes inand looks down at the sleeping man whose eyelids, flutteringin the FATHER's masquerade of sleep, make him seem to behaving a dream. JIM is torn between his desire to leave andhis need to speak. He turns off the television quietly,then lies down on the couch across the way. He mumbles thethings he would say to his FATHER and the answers he feelshe would get. The old man opens his eyes once, sees the boythere, head banging upside down from the couch. Then heshuts them again.Upside down long shot. Room (JIM's viewpoint). Suddenly,inverted in his vision, the MOTHER appears at the head ofthe stairs, in bathrobe and nightgown. She pauses a moment,then runs down crying: MOTHER He's home! You're home! You're all right!The camera rights itself suddenly.JIM as he completes his turn, pulling his head up and sitting.FATHER as he pretends to awaken with a start.Full shot, room as the MOTHER hurries to JIM, holds him,inspects him, kisses him. MOTHER What happened, darling. We were so worried. I was going to take a sleeping pill, but I wouldn't till I knew you were home. JIM I have to talk to someone, Mom. I have to talk to you both. And Dad this time you got to give me an answer. FATHER Go ahead. JIM I'm in terrible trouble.--You know that big high bluff near Miller- town Junction? FATHER Sure--there was a bad accident there. They showed the pictures on T.V. JIM I was in it. MOTHER How! JIM It doesn't matter how. I was driving a stolen car-- MOTHER Do you enjoy doing this to me or what-- JIM Mom--I'm not-- MOTHER And you wanted him to make a list! FATHER Will you let him tell it! JIM She never wants to hear. She doesn't care! MOTHER I guess when I nearly died giving birth to you--that shows how much I don't care! FATHER Just relax, please relax! JIM I told you Dad, it was a question of honor. They called me chicken-- you know, chicken! I had to go or I would never have been able to face any of those kids again. So I got in one of these cars and a boy called Buzz got in the other. We had to drive fast and jump before the cars went over the edge of the bluff. I got out okay but Buzz didn't. He was killed. MOTHER Good Lord! JIM I can't keep it to myself anymore-- FATHER Well, just get it off your chest, son. JIM That's not what I mean. I've never done anything right. I've been going around with my head in a sling for years...I don't want to drag you into this but I can't help it. I don't think I can prove anything by going around pretending I'm tough any more, so maybe you look like one thing but you still feel like another. FATHER You're absolutely right! JIM Are you listening to me? You're involved in this! I want to go to the police and tell them I was mixed up in this thing tonight? FATHER You what? MOTHER No! FATHER Did anyone see you there? I mean did they get your license number or anything? JIM I don't think so-- FATHER Well-- MOTHER What about the other boys--Do you think they'll go to the police? JIM What's that got to do with it? MOTHER Why should you be the only one. FATHER Look Jim. Far be it from me to tell you what to do, but there's-- MOTHER Are you going to preach now? Are we going to have a sermon? FATHER I'm just explaining what you mean! You can't be an idealist all your life! Nobody thanks you for sticking your neck out! MOTHER That's right! JIM Except yourself! FATHER Will you wait a minute? JIM You don't want me to go. MOTHER No! I don't want you to go to the police! There were other people and why should you be the only one involved! JIM But I am involved! We're all involved, Mom! A boy was killed! I don't see how we can get out of that by pretending it didn't happen! FATHER You know you did wrong. That's the main thing, isn't it? JIM No! It's nothing! Just nothing! You always told me to tell the truth. You think you can just turn that off? MOTHER He's not saying that! He's saying don't volunteer! JIM Just tell a little white lie? FATHER You'll learn as you get a little older, Jim. JIM I don't want to learn that! MOTHER Well, it doesn't matter anyhow-- because we're moving. JIM No! You're not tearing me loose any more. MOTHER Do I have to spell it out? JIM You're not going to use me as an excuse again, Mom. Every time you can't face yourself you want to move and you say it's because of me or the neighborhood or some other phony excuse. Now I want to do one thing right and I'm not letting you run away. (silence) Dad? FATHER Son--this is all happening so fast-- JIM You better give me something, Dad. You better give me something (stops as he sees the emptiness in them) Mom? MOTHER Jimmy, you're very young--and a foolish decision now could wreck your whole life. JIM Dad--answer her--aren't you going to stand up for me?The FATHER is mute, helpless... Suddenly JIM screams. JIM Dad?He leaps at his FATHER, dragging him to his feet, hands atthe man's throat. MOTHER Stop it! You'll kill him! Jim! Do you want to kill your father?Suddenly JIM loosens his hands and rises. He looks swiftlyat each of them--moves a few steps toward the door, looksback at them again--then rushes out of the house. Theparents stand frozen. DISSOLVE TO:Outside Precinct Station. JIM's car comes to a stop at thecurb. JIM gets out and approaches the flight of stepsleading up the entrance. A bare bulb on either side is theonly illumination. As he mounts the first step, the doubledoors above him swing open revealing several people. JIMstops short. So do they.Low angle. CRUNCH, MOOSE and their parents. JIM's back inf.g. The boys stare down at him.High angle. JIM (from the boys' point of view) as he staresup at them. MOOSE's father takes his arm and starts himdown the stairs, the others moving too. MOOSE Let go of me-- MOOSE'S FATHER You want a good crack in the mouth?JIM starts forward up the steps. CRUNCH grabs him. CRUNCH This place appeal to you or something?They move down the steps as JIM breaks away and continues up.He goes through the doors.Inside doors as JIM comes through and stops. He looks backthrough the glass. We see the group reach the curb wheretheir cars are parked. There is a brief discussion which wecannot hear, then CRUNCH and MOOSE move off to MOOSE's car.JIM turns back. He looks worried as he passes camera.Med. shot. CRUNCH and MOOSE. They stop at MOOSE's car andlook back at the entrance. The parents are seen beyondthem, getting into their cars. CRUNCH is near tears withanger. CRUNCH What's he going to pull-- MOOSE Nothing, Crunch. They picked him up like the rest of-- CRUNCH You see any cops? MOOSE'S FATHER (yelling) You monsters start home. We're going to-- MOOSE Yeah. Yeah. MOOSE'S FATHER We're following you so better get there. CRUNCH You see any cops? MOOSE No-- CRUNCH He's going to cheese, I tell you. Nobody arrested him! MOOSE I think I should go home. CRUNCH No. We're going to bring him down. MOOSE Crunch--my father's--You going to kill him? CRUNCH (crying) You clean out of your head? Come on!CRUNCH gets into the car. MOOSE follows. They gun themotor and throw the car into a sharp U-turn. MOOSE'S FATHERjumps into his car. He steps on the starter but nothinghappens--just the empty whirring, over and over. Finally itstarts, but the boys have gone.Inside Precinct Station. Juvenile division. A desksergeant is writing in the record book. Facing him acrossthe desk and handcuffed to an officer is a young hoodlum,very different in appearance from the kids we have met--atypical duck-tail 'cat'. SERGEANT (spelling) W-O-J-T-what? HOODLUM O-W-I-C-Z. Wojtowicz. What's the matter, man? That's the craziest name in town! It swings! JIM Excuse me--but--You know where I can find--I mean I don't remember his last name-- SERGEANT Look--can't you see I'm writing? HOODLUM (combing his duck-tail) Man, this cat never stops. He just keeps going like Big Jay at a session! OFFICER Shut up. HOODLUM He's writing a book about me-- SERGEANT What I could write about you they wouldn't print. JIM I think his first name's Ray--I have to see him. It's very important. SERGEANT What's the charge? OFFICER Assault with a deadly weapon. JIM Listen-- SERGEANT (annoyed) He's not here. He's not at Juvenile Hall. I don't know where he is. He's out on a call and he'll be out all night. How old are you? JIM My parents know I'm out. They know I'm here. SERGEANT Come back tomorrow. JIM I'll wait for him. SERGEANT Why don't you come back tomorrow, son? (to hoodlum) Ever been booked before?JIM turns away, notices a phone on the wall--puts in a coin,asks for a number.Bedroom of JUDY's parents. Through an open door we hear aradio playing-- a late disc-jockey show for teenagers inwhich numbers are dedicated by request. JUDY'S MOTHER andFATHER are in bed, FATHER has phone in his hand. JUDY'S FATHER Who wants her? Who? Jim who? Never heard of you.He hangs up phone, looks at his wife. She rolls over in bed.The FATHER turns off the bed lamp, then sits up, worried inthe dark.JUDY's bedroom. It is her radio we have heard. She turnsoff light, opens the door a crack, and looks out toward herparent's room. DISSOLVE TO:Traveling shot. PLATO. He is coming up the walk to hishouse. When PLATO has come a few feet, somebody whistles.PLATO and camera stop. Short, quiet whistles come from theboxwood and shrubbery on both sides of the walk. PLATOturns and starts to run, camera following. He gets to hisdoor, tries the key, but in his panic it will not go intothe lock. Suddenly a hand reaches in and jerks him around.CRUNCH stands above him. GOON closes in from the other side.All very tense and hotted up! PLATO What do you want! CRUNCH You know what we want. We want your friend. GOON We got eyes for him. PLATO Listen, you guys ought to go home. The cops are cruising every-- GOON Where does he live?PLATO reaches up swiftly and rings the bell. GOON grabs him.CRUNCH cracks him. CRUNCH You better tell us and I'm not kidding. PLATO My old man's got a gun. GOON His old man's got a gun. What do you think of that! (drives a hard blow at PLATO's belly) Your friend talked-- (belts him again) Now you talk! Talk!The door opens and the NEGRO WOMAN is there. CRUNCH sendsPLATO spinning into the house past her. He falls. NEGRO WOMAN (yelling) What you doing! What you doing to him! You clear out of here 'fore I call the police!She swings at CRUNCH who faces her, challenging. NEGRO WOMAN Clear out. Go on! Go on now! MOOSE Let's go, Crunch.They turn and move past camera. PLATO gets up off the floor.We hear the sound of a heap starting. The NEGRO WOMANcloses the door.Inside PLATO's foyer as NEGRO WOMAN bolts the door. NEGRO WOMAN Why you like to mix with bad boys like that? Why you get in trouble all the-- PLATO I have to go out. I have to warn him.He starts up the stairs. She follows him heavily. NEGRO WOMAN You not going anywhere! You staying home while your mama's away.Bedroom of PLATO's mother, a lacy affair with imported dollson the pillows. PLATO rushes in, opens the drawer of thenight-table and pulls out a gun. He checks to see that itis loaded. The NEGRO WOMAN appears in the door and staresat him, turns on the light which illuminates the bed-lamp. NEGRO WOMAN John! What you doing with that! You leave that be! Put it down before you hurt yourself. Hear me?But PLATO moves past her and out of the room. She turnsafter him. NEGRO WOMAN (continuing) John! You stay home! John! John!The slam of a door is heard below. DISSOLVE TO:JIM's garage. Night. JUDY waiting inside. JIM's car pullsin, a radio going softly. He turns the motor off and isabout to turn off the radio when we hear the announcer: ANNOUNCER Coming up now another request--this time from the boys down at Anna's Pizza Paradise--A new arrangement of a great oldie in rhythm and blues. Jim, this is dedicated to you--from Buzz.JIM stares at the radio, then turns it off.Another angle. JUDY They'll be looking for you. JIM They saw where I jumped! I didn't chicken! What do I have to do-- kill myself? JUDY It doesn't matter to them. JIM You were looking for me, weren't you? JUDY (a small voice) No--I was just--maybe-- JIM I tried to call you before. JUDY I thought so. JIM Want some milk?JUDY comes forward. JIM That's all I can do when I'm nervous. Drink milk. Here--have a slug.She shakes her head. He takes a sip. JIM You still pretty upset? JUDY I'm numb.She is shuddering a little. JIM You cold? JUDY Even if I'm near a fire, I'm cold. I guess just about everybody's cold. JIM I swear, sometimes, you just want to hold onto somebody! Judy, what am I going to do? I can't go home again. JUDY Neither can I. JIM No? Why not? (no answer) You know something? Sometimes I figure I'll never live to see my next birthday. Isn't that dumb? JUDY No. JIM Every day I look in the mirror and say, "What? You still here?" Man!They laugh a little. JIM Hey! You smiled!JUDY shakes her head--beginning to warm to him. JIM Like even today. I woke up this morning, you know? And the sun was shining and everything was nice. Then the first thing that happens is I see you and I thought this is going to be one terrific day so you better live it up, boy, 'cause tomorrow maybe you'll be nothing. JUDY I'm sorry I treated you mean today. You shouldn't believe what I say when I'm with the kids. Nobody acts sincere. JIM Why'd you get mixed up with them? You don't have to prove anything. JUDY If you knew me you wouldn't say that. JIM I don't think you trust anybody, do you? JUDY Why? JIM I'm getting that way, too. JUDY (looks at him) Have you ever gone with anyone who-- JIM Sure. Lots of times. JUDY So have I. But I've never been in love. Isn't that awful? JIM (smiling) Awful? No. It's just lonely. It's the loneliest time.She looks up. He kisses her forehead. JUDY Why did you do that? JIM I felt like it. JUDY Your lips are soft when you kiss.JUDY rises. JIM Where you going? JUDY I don't know, but we can't stay here. JIM Where can we go? I can't go back into that zoo. JUDY I'm never going back. JIM Listen! I know a place! PLATO showed me before. An old deserted mansion near the planetarium (rises) Would you go with me?JUDY hesitates. JIM You can trust me, Judy. JUDY I feel as if I'm walking under water.They start out. DISSOLVE TO:Inside bathroom. JIM's house. The water is running in thesink and JIM's father is fixing a stomach settler. Graduallyhe grows aware of a heavy pounding which insinuates itselfabove the splash of water. The FATHER pauses, then turnsoff the tap. The pounding continues. JIM'S MOTHER appearsat the bathroom door. She is seen in the mirror tying herrobe. MOTHER Frank? I'm frightened. FATHER What's that pounding? MOTHER I don't know. First I thought it was Jim but-- FATHER He's home. I heard the car. MOTHER Are you going down there? FATHER Look--just relax, will you?The pounding ceases. FATHER See? It stopped. MOTHER I still think you should go down.He goes out of the bathroom, into the hall.Foyer. JIM's house as the FATHER comes down the stairs,turning on the light as he comes. He reaches the door andpauses. The MOTHER stops midway down the stairs. FATHER (through the door) Who's there? (silence) Anyone there? MOTHER (low; at balustrade) Open it.The FATHER opens the door and looks up sharply.Close shot. Door. FATHER's head in f.g. as he stares at it.Nailed to the door by its outstretched wings, its headhanging in an attitude of crucifixion, is the freshly killedcarcass of a chicken. Low whistles are heard from outside.The FATHER, frightened, looks out into the night.Full shot. Front lawn and street. Shooting over theFATHER's head. The whistling continues. FATHER (hoarsely) Who's out there? VOICE Where's your son? FATHER What? ANOTHER VOICE Where's your baby boy gone to, Daddy? We want him.Suddenly the FATHER slams the door and rushes past us intothe house.Full shot. Foyer as the FATHER rushes to the bottom of thestairs. FATHER Look in his room!The MOTHER disappears. FATHER Jim! Jim!The FATHER dashes into the living room, then into the hallagain and down through the kitchen door.Back yard as the FATHER comes out. He closes the doorquietly and calls in a low voice: FATHER Son?He stares around the yard, then hurries to the garage.JIM's car is missing. He looks up suddenly.Reverse shot. JUDY'S FATHER seen across the alley wall. Heis standing in his own back yard. JUDY'S FATHER Is anything wrong? I'm your neighbor.Med. shot. JIM'S FATHER. He smiles feebly. FATHER Oh, no, thanks. I just wanted to-- to be sure my garage was closed.JIM'S FATHER closes his garage door and walks back towardhis house. MOTHER (O.S.) Is he there? FATHER No, honey. No, he's not here.He starts for the house again after a quick look in thedirection of JUDY'S FATHER.Full shot. JUDY's back yard. JUDY'S FATHER watches MR.STARK disappear, then... JUDY'S FATHER (softly) Judy?The alley by JIM's house. PLATO drives up on scooter. Hechecks the garage, sees JIM's car is gone, is about to takeoff in confusion, hears door slam in JIM's back yard, shutsoff engine, fixes tie, combs hair, goes in the fence gate toJIM's back yard.Full shot. JIM's back yard. JIM'S FATHER is coming towardhim. JIM'S FATHER and PLATO simultaneously say: FATHER What are you doing? PLATO Where's Jim? FATHER I don't know. Do you--do you know where he is? PLATO No. No, I don't.Closeup. PLATO remembers about the mansion--then almost tohimself: PLATO I know where--Back to full shot. FATHER and PLATO. PLATO Hope I didn't bother you. Goodnight.He runs to scooter. FATHER Hey, come back here. Who are you? DISSOLVE TO:Split screen montage. It begins with a telephone ringingalone in the corner of the screen. As camera moves back wesee that the phone is in an office at Juvenile Hall. RAY isstanding by, trying to make sense out of the incoming reports.The other part of the screen lights up and becomes:Bedroom of PLATO'S MOTHER where the NEGRO WOMAN is speakinghysterically into the phone.Bedroom of JUDY's parents. The FATHER is on the phone.BEAU has awakened and is crying. His MOTHER tries to diverthim.JIM's bedroom. JIM'S FATHER sits disconsolately on the bed,the phone in his hand. He is talking earnestly.During this the sound of the telephone ringing has increasedto become the sound of many and this has been submerged in adeep rising riot of sirens whose wail mounts higher andhigher until: DISSOLVE TO:Full shot. Planetarium. Moonlight. A lone siren wails indistance. Aside from this, all is very still. Camera panspast the dome and settles on an isolated mansion set high ona hill nearby. Stone balustrades drop down to sunkengardens where the grass has gone to seed around a waterlessfountain.Closer shot. Mansion. Night. A Mediterranean villa with alarge domed solarium which is connected to the main buildingby a low enclosed arcade. A crash and the falling ofsplintered glass is heard.Long shot. Promenade. Shooting through pillars of the mainentrance portico, down the long promenade outside arcade.Two figures, seen in the distance, are disappearing througha window. Camera tracks down promenade until it reaches abroken window through which JIM is just disappearing. Whenhe gets inside, he reaches back and takes his leather jacketwhich has been spread on the sill to protect them fromsplinters, shakes it out and puts it on. Running footstepsare heard approaching. JIM looks out nervously. PLATObursts in, out of breath. PLATO Jim! JIM Who's that! PLATO It's me! JIM How'd you find me? What's happening? PLATO They're looking for you!-- JIM Yeah? PLATO Everybody! Crunch and Goon and everybody! I think they're going to kill you. JIM We know. PLATO They think you told the police on them. They--who's in there? JIM Judy. PLATO Help me in!JIM gives PLATO a hand over the windowsill.Inside arcade. JIM and JUDY are seen in an entering shaftof moonlight. PLATO hits the floor and disappears intodarkness. JIM Hey where'd you go? PLATO I'm here. Shut up. JIM Come out come out wherever you are! PLATO Shut up. Are you nuts? JIM No. I'm scared.A match flares and lights a candle on an antique Spanishcandelabra. PLATO is revealed bending over it. He lightsthe other candles through the following: PLATO We're safe here. I hope. (holds up candelabra) What do you think? JIM (gazing around) Wow! Well now-there-then!His wonderment is justified. The floor of the arcade ismarble and there are marble benches and neo-Roman bustslining the walls. PLATO Isn't it crazy? JIM Wowee ow wow! Let's take it for the summer. JUDY Oh, Jim! JIM No--come on. Should we rent or are we in a buying mood, dear? JUDY (laughing) You decide, darling. Remember our budget. PLATO Don't give it a thought. Only three million dollars a month! JUDY Oh, we can manage that! I'll scrimp and save and work my fingers to the bone... JIM Why don't we just rent it for the season? JUDY You see, we've just--oh, you tell him, darling. I'm so embarrassed I could die! JIM Well--we're newlyweds. JUDY There's just one thing. What about-- PLATO Children? Well, we really don't encourage them. They're so noisy and troublesome, don't you agree? JUDY Yes. And so terribly annoying when they cry. I just don't know what to do when they cry, do you dear? JIM Of course. Drown them like puppies. JUDY See, we're very modern. PLATO Shall I show you the nursery? It's far away from the rest of the house. If you have children--Oh I hate the word!--or if you decide to adopt one--they can carry on and you'll never even notice. In fact, if you lock them in you never have to see them again, much less talk to them. JUDY Talk to them! Heavens! JIM Nobody talks to children! They just tell them one thing and mean another. PLATO It's wonderful that you understand so well--and so young too! You know the most wonderful feature about the nursery? JIM What? PLATO There's only one key. JIM We'll take it! PLATO Come on!PLATO leads them away from us down the arcade, the candelabracasting wild shadows on the walls. They are laughing asthey disappear through the glass doors at the end and theirlaughter echoes stonily. DISSOLVE TO:Med. shot. A street and an alley. Night seen through thewindshield of a police car. Its radio is on low. Twoofficers are in the front seat. One of them drinks coffeefrom a container. Suddenly MOOSE's heap moves past on thestreet ahead. In it are MOOSE, GOON and CRUNCH.Full shot. The street as MOOSE's heap continues up theempty street. The police car slides out of the alley whereit has been concealed, and follows at a distance. Itsheadlights are off.Close shot. CRUNCH, GOON and MOOSE (Process). They are inthe front seat of MOOSE's heap. MOOSE What time is it? CRUNCH Hang loose. We got all night. MOOSE That maid saw us. She could identify us too. CRUNCH You still want to go home, Moose? MOOSE No. CRUNCH Then shut your mouth before your guts run out! GOON What guts? DISSOLVE TO:Inside glass solarium. A swimming pool lies at the center.There is no water in it. Framing the pool is a flagstonewalk with marble benches spotted here and there. The greatglass room had once been planted thickly with tropicalfoliage.But now what palms and lianas remain are withered and deadwith lack of care. At the edge of the pool, near the deepend, a blanket has been spread and a candelabra burns uponit. In its mysterious light our three kids are revealed:JIM, bouncing precariously at the end of the diving board;JUDY on the blanket nearby; PLATO on the pool's bottom. Allthree are laughing hysterically when suddenly JIM starts tolose his balance. JIM (yelling) Quick! Fill the pool!JIM falls in. PLATO rushes to him. JIM Let's see how long we can stay under. PLATO Man, you're schizoid! JIM (in another outburst of laughing) I'm what? What? JUDY You can't talk underwater! JIM (gargling) I bet you hear everything I say! PLATO (gargling) Isn't he schizoid? JIM (gargling) Hey! How 'bout that!They laugh again. JIM swings up the ladder and goes to JUDY.PLATO follows. PLATO Haven't you noticed your personality splitting? JIM Not lately.They all sit on the blanket. JIM How do you know so much about this junk, Plato? PLATO I had to go to a head-shrinker. I only went twice though. My mother said it cost too much, so she went to Hawaii instead.JIM lies back with his head in JUDY's lap. She strokes hishair and smiles at him. PLATO looks away. JIM No. Seriously. What's your trouble?PLATO hesitates a moment, then leans back, cuddling betweenthe two of them. PLATO I don't know but whatever it is, it's gone now. I mean I'm happy now. Here.JIM puts his arm under PLATO's chin. PLATO I came here before. JIM When was that? PLATO When I was here? When I ran away. I used to run away a lot but they always took me back. JIM Who? PLATO Mom and Dad. I used to be in my crib and I'd listen to them fight. JIM You remember that far back? Boy, I can't even remember yesterday. JUDY Plato, where's your father now? PLATO He's dead. He was a hero in the China Sea. JIM You told me he's a big wheel in New York! PLATO I did? Well, he might as well be dead. What's the difference? JUDY It's all right. JIM Sure.PLATO closes his eyes. JUDY hums a lullaby as she strokesJIM's lips with a finger. He snaps at it. Then he kissesher hand, looks at her palm. They whisper. JIM (continuing) You have a long life-line.She takes his palm and examines it. JUDY So have you.She kisses it, holds her cheek against it. JIM Ever been in a place like this before? JUDY Not exactly. It's certainly huge. JIM How many rooms do you think there are? JUDY I don't know. JIM Should we explore?She looks at PLATO. JIM shrugs--tests to see if the boy isawake, but there is no reaction.Carefully, they crawl to their feet. JIM supporting PLATO'shead with his hands as they do so. JIM takes the otherblanket and covers PLATO with it. JUDY kneels on the otherside and tucks it in. They look at each other across himand smile. Then suddenly JUDY bends down and kisses PLATO'scheek very softly. JUDY and JIM rise.JIM takes a candle from the candelabra and leads JUDY alongthe edge of the pool to the glass doors beyond. Silenceexcept for their footfalls on the flagstone. In thedistance we see the doors open and the couple pass through.When they close again, a sob comes from PLATO.High angle closeup. PLATO lying as they left him, but hiseyes are open and he is crying. Camera booms up as PLATOthrows off the blanket and looks after them. Camera boomshigher until he is revealed as a small and lonely figuresitting by himself. The pool echoes his weeping. DISSOLVE TO:Inside library. Mansion. Night. The door opens slowly andJIM appears with the candle. JUDY lingers at the door. Theflickering light reveals a formerly lavish room, paneled inoak. There is a tapestry couch, empty bookcases, some dimportraits, a leather table and several chairs around a greatstone fireplace. JIM Hey! Will you look at this room! (looks behind him) Judy?She comes forward. JIM drips wax on the table-top andsticks the candle on it. His hand shakes. JUDY sits on thecouch. JIM (continuing) Want to read any books? Take your pick! (sits beside her) Isn't this the craziest? JUDY Hi. JIM Hi.He takes her hand. She looks at him and smiles. JIM (continuing) What? JUDY Your hand's all wet and it's shaky. (kisses it) You're so funny. JIM Why? JUDY I don't know--you just are. Leaving a light for Plato. That was nice. JIM Maybe he's scared of the dark. JUDY Are you?JIM snuffs out the candle. They are left in moonlight. Apause. JIM (singing) Here we are-- out of cigarettes-- Junior's in the nurs'ry-- See how late it gets-- JUDY You don't need to do that. JIM There's something I should tell you, Judy. JUDY I know already. We don't have to pretend now. JIM (laughing) What a relief!He leans back, relaxed at last. She snuggles close to him. JUDY Is this what it's like to love somebody? JIM You disappointed? JUDY (mussing her hair) Funny Jimmy. You're so clean and you--this is silly. JIM What? JUDY You smell like baby powder. JIM So do you. JUDY I never felt so clean before. JIM It's not going to be lonely, Judy. Not for you and not for me. JUDY I love somebody. All the time I've been looking for someone to love me and now--I love somebody. And it's so easy. Why is it easy now? JIM It is for me too. JUDY I love you, Jim. I really mean it.She kisses his lips gently and looks into his face. Hereturns the kiss. Their arms go around each other. JIM I mean it too.He kisses her again--Full shot. Road near Planetarium. MOOSE's heap crawls upand turns left. A moment later, the police car appears anddoes likewise--still holding its distance.Full shot. The mansion as MOOSE's heap moves past on theroad below. Suddenly it stops.Inside MOOSE's heap. CRUNCH looks off, curious. GOON What you stopping for? CRUNCH You scam a car up there? MOTHER So what? CRUNCH Nobody's lived in that hunk of junk for five-six years.He switches on the spotlight. It illuminates JIM's heap. CRUNCH Well, what do you know! I feel a kick coming on!He turns off all the lights and gets out. The others follow.Med. shot. Police car. It has halted. One of the officersgets out and draws his gun. The other makes radio contactin a low voice: OFFICER This is Unit 17. Unit 17. RADIO Come in, Unit 17. OFFICER We just zeroed three kids in a heap. Crest Drive and Observatory. Looks like house-breaking. Send us some help. They may be armed. Over.Close shot. PLATO asleep on the blanket. Only a singlecandle burns in the candelabra. The same low whistles heardearlier come from all around him and rise in volume.Suddenly his eyes open. He doesn't move, but he has comesuddenly awake.Low shot. PLATO lying in f.g. Next to his face are a pairof booted feet. He looks up. Camera pans up to show CRUNCH.He is smiling. He holds a tire chain in his hand which heswings. CRUNCH Good morning.Full shot. The swimming pool. GOON and MOOSE are behindCRUNCH. They too are armed with tire chains. They alllaugh. PLATO rolls away from them and runs toward the deepend of the pool. CRUNCH Moose! Take the steps! Goon! The other side.The boys run to their assigned places. PLATO sees no exit.He flings himself down the ladder and into the pool. Hefeints this way and that, the boys responding as if theywere fencing. CRUNCH swings down the ladder and his bootsmake a loud report as they hit the pool. MOOSE advancesdown the steps at the shallow end. GOON climbs onto thepool bottom at the opposite side. The feinting continues,wordlessly, as the circle closes around PLATO. The onlysounds are the stamping of their boots as they try todistract him from side to side, and the animalistic gruntsthey make to scare him. Suddenly PLATO sees an opening andplunges past MOOSE, pushing him over, and stumbles up thesteps. CRUNCH Come on! Let's make it!They stream out of the pool after PLATO. He reaches theglass doors first, streaks though, and bangs them shutbehind him.Traveling shot. Arcade. PLATO's face is visible only whenthe moonlight strikes him through the passing windows. Thesound of running steps behind him.Full shot. Main room. A pattern of moonlight on the barefloor as PLATO dashes in and through it. He falls over apiece of furniture and comes scurrying in to camera, wheelsaround on hands and knees to face the door. The boys plungeinto the moonlit square and stop. PLATO tries not tobreathe. A match is struck. CRUNCH looks around, but cansee nothing. That match goes out. The boys start up thestairs, whispering. Immediately, PLATO crawls forward,under the piano. He hears a murmur of voices from behindthe oak door of the library--next to the piano. He moves toit stealthily.Close shot, PLATO at door listening through it, on hands andknees. His confusion mounts. He shakes his head to clearit. Then, suddenly he rises and tries the knob. The dooris locked. He beats on it. PLATO Save me!The boys run across the room. As they hit the moonlitsquare. PLATO spins and fires. Somebody drops and startsmoaning. JIM opens the door. PLATO (shrieks) What you run out on me for! What you leave me alone for? JIM Plato!There is a rush of boys coming forward. PLATO (with hate) I don't want you for my father! JIM Your father!PLATO fires at JIM. JIM leaps at PLATO with a cry andknocks him down. JIM (in rage) You crazy nut! You crazy, crazy nut! PLATO (screaming) Get away from me!He rolls away from JIM and runs to the main door. JUDY Jim!Main door, from inside. PLATO falls upon it, fumbles withthe bolt and swings the door wide. He steps out into thewaning moonlight and we see him running down the lawn. JIMrushes into the doorway and stops short.Full shot. Mansion. The OFFICERS are moving away from ustoward it. PLATO runs wildly toward them. OFFICER (sharply) Halt!PLATO stops, confused. OFFICER (continuing) Come here.JIM runs out on the promenade and starts over the balustrade. JIM Plato!Close shot. PLATO. His face is working desperately ingrowing panic. OFFICER (O.S.) Come here, son. PLATO No! JIM (O.S.) Plato! OFFICER (O.S.) Just walk over here quietly now-- and there won't be any trouble.PLATO runs out.Close shot. JIM as he screams. JIM Plato!Full shot. Main doorway as JUDY rushes out, followed byGOON and MOOSE. They all stop dead at the balustrade. JUDY Jim! Watch out!Reverse shot. Lawn. JIM seen in f.g. PLATO bolting towardthe woods in the direction of the planetarium. The officershave both hit the ground in the distance. They fire again.JIM hesitates a moment, then rushes after PLATO. Theofficers fire again.Moving shot. JIM as he runs after PLATO.Med. shot. OFFICERS as they rise to their feet. FIRST OFFICER Take the house! I'll head him off.Full shot. Front of mansion. JUDY flies down the stairsand rushes past camera. OFFICER (O.S.) Halt! Halt!Prowl car. Another part of town (Process). RAY is driving.JIM's father is beside him. The mother is in the back seat. RADIO --located at Summit Drive--the Planetarium. RAY (snapping on mike) The planetarium? One kid inside-- five housebreaking in area. Will proceed. (turning to JIM's parents) There are some kids in trouble-- you'll have to go with me. FATHER Perfectly all right.Edge of woods as JIM hurtles in from the open ground beyond.He stumbles against a tree and sinks down. JIM (yelling) Plato!Traveling shot in the woods as PLATO rushes through themoonlit trees, sobbing. JIM (O.S.) (distant) Plato!Med. shot. JIM at the base of a tree. He is whimpering,shaking his head. JUDY crashes through the brush and dropsbeside him. JUDY Did he hit you?She is on the verge of hysteria. JIM No! JUDY We have to go back! JIM No! I got to find him.He starts to rise. JUDY After he tried to shoot you? JIM He didn't mean it--we shouldn't have left him. He needed us. JUDY He needed you, maybe. So do I.There is a sound of distant gunfire. Both kids freeze. JIM He needs you too. Come on.JUDY, breaking into a run, follows after him through the brush. JUDY You should have heard him talk about you tonight. Like you were the hero in the China Seas. JIM Sure. He was trying to make us his family. JUDY They're killing him!JIM runs ahead blindly and disappears in the trees. JUDYrushes after him a few steps, then stops.JUDY and JIM running.PLATO running.The planetarium. Moonlight. Shooting from the bridle pathand panning to the building. PLATO reels in and goes to thefront door.Med. shot. Door to planetarium. PLATO clutches the handle.The door is locked. He whimpers once in frustration.Med. shot. Policeman running up same path PLATO has followed.PLATO at door to planetarium. He smashes the glass with hisgun and dives through.Inside planetarium as PLATO lands. He is cut and bleeding. OFFICER (O.S.) Come out of there.PLATO wheels and skitters backward across the floor of theobservatory on his hands and knees until he comes to thedoor of the planetarium theater.Reverse shot. Main entrance. Seen from inside. TheOFFICER in b.g., PLATO in f.g. The OFFICER appears in theentrance, then moves quickly to one side to be less of atarget. He reaches in to unlatch the door. OFFICER You're making it tough on yourself, kid. Come out quietly now. You didn't kill anybody yet.PLATO fires at him, then opens the door of the planetariumtheater and runs inside. The door swings shut behind him.Outside planetarium. The OFFICER is hugging the outsidewall. Another siren wails and a spotlight catches theOFFICER who runs out into the light. OFFICER (running) Need a little help here!Full shot. Parking lot as the CHIEF's car wheels to a stop.It is followed by a civilian car and a cab.CHIEF's car. CHIEF We heard firing. He get anybody? You alone? OFFICER We got a cookaboo inside. He wounded some kid earlier. CHIEF How'd he get in? OFFICER Smashed the front door. CHIEF Any other entrance? OFFICER (leaving) Down in back.Med. shot. Bushes bordering planetarium as JIM climbsthrough them and stops short, staring in amazement. JUDY isin b.g.Full shot. Parking lot. JIM seen in f.g. hiding in thescreen of leaves. Beyond we see the full activity--thecrowd, the cars, searchlights playing on the planetariumentrance, police moving in under direction of the CHIEF. CHIEF (loud on speaker) Silence. Please maintain silence. Keep back and stay off the pavements. Keep back and stay off the pavements. There will be emergency vehicles coming through. This warning is for your own protection.RAY's prowl car come in. JIM's parents climb out, curious.RAY hurries to consult with an officer who briefs him, thenhurries to the chief's car.Parking lot. Several patrol cars now line the parking lot.The NEGRO WOMAN in her nightgown and overcoat pushes forwardfrom a cab and accosts an OFFICER. NEGRO WOMAN What's going on? OFFICER I don't know, lady. Some kid's in trouble. Stand back, please. NEGRO WOMAN I got to know. My boy run off tonight. He had a gun with him, too.Med. shot. CHIEF's car as RAY hurries in. CHIEF Hello, Ray--Know anything about this? RAY As much as you do--Loan me your mike, will you? CHIEF (handing it to him) Help yourself. RAY (into mike) I am addressing the boy in the planetarium. I am speaking to the boy inside. This is Ray Framek from the Juvenile Division--Close-up JIM as he reacts to RAY's name. He rises and looksoff. RAY (O.S.) (over speaker) You are now surrounded. You are surrounded by many armed police. Whoever you are, drop your weapon and come outside.Med. shot. JIM'S FATHER standing by RAY's car, gazing offwith interest. His wife comes out and stands beside him,looks at him questioningly. RAY (O.S.) (over speaker) Come outside. Clasp your hands over your head and come outside quietly--The FATHER's gaze has traveled over the scene. Suddenly hesees his son followed by JUDY, run into the planetarium. MOTHER Frank! FATHER Stay here. (goes over to RAY) That was my son! RAY You sure? FATHER I think I know my son.The FATHER moves behind the crowd, camera trucking with him,until he reaches the bushes at the edge of the parking lotand stops, gathering himself. Meanwhile RAY's voicecontinues over: RAY (O.S.) (over speaker) Jim Stark! I'm addressing Jim Stark. Nobody will harm you or your friends if you follow these instructions. We are here to protect you. Drop your guns and come outside. Nobody will hurt you if you do as I say--The FATHER starts forward along the bushes as if stalkinggame. Each step is carefully placed and quiet, but hisheart tugs him along like a kite dragging an anchor. CHIEF Officers! Another boy and girl just ran into the planetarium. We do not know if they are armed. Hold your positions until further instruction.Inside planetarium as JIM comes dashing in, spins around,staring. JUDY follows. A siren is heard outside growingshrill. CHIEF (O.S.) (over speaker) Ambulance. Ambulance is coming through. Clear a passage. Will you people make way there?Floodlights strike the door and illuminate the lobby dimly. JIM (softly) Plato?Silence. JIM moves cautiously to the door of the planetariumtheater. JUDY hangs back. Another siren is heardapproaching. More floodlights strike the door. JIM (continuing - calling softly) Plato? Plato, you in there? (silence) Hey, I'm going to open the door now. You'll be able to see me and you can shoot me if you want, but just remember one thing, Plato--You're my friend. That means a lot to me.JIM opens the door slowly.Inside theater. Darkness except for the splash of lightfrom the door where JIM stands in silhouette. He lets thedoor close. Blackness. JIM Plato? PLATO I'm here. JIM Boy, I'm blind as a bat! You got a match? I'm going to break my neck in here. Where are you? PLATO I've got a gun. JIM I know. Light a match, will you?PLATO obeys. JIM That's swell. How are you? PLATO I'm fine.Another siren is heard outside. JIM has reached thelecturer's desk and, just as the match goes out, he throws aswitch. The stars appear on the dome and the projectorstarts its slow revolution. PLATO You think the end of the world will come at nighttime, Jim? JIM No. At dawn. PLATO Why? JIM I just have a feeling. Where are you? PLATO Here. JIM Well, stop hiding and stand up. I can't talk to you if I don't see you.JIM waits. Nothing happens. JIM Hey, look at the stars, Plato. Stand up and look at the stars.Plato rises from behind a row, then JIM continues: JIM That's fine.JIM approaches slowly. JIM I'm not going to hurt you. PLATO Why did you run out on me? JIM We didn't run out. We were coming right back. PLATO You sure? JIM Sure I'm sure. Judy's waiting. You ready to come out now?A siren is heard. PLATO No. JIM I promise nothing'll happen if you do. (silence) You want my jacket? It's warm.JIM takes off his jacket and holds it out to PLATO. PLATO Can I keep it? JIM What do you think?JIM gives him the jacket--PLATO puts it on. JIM You want to give me your gun now, Plato? PLATO My gun? JIM In your pocket. Give it to me. PLATO I need it. JIM You trust me, don't you? Just give it to me for a second.PLATO hands him the gun. JIM removes the cartridges andputs them in his pocket. PLATO You promised to give it back. JIM Friends never break promises, do they? (gives him back the gun) Okay. Here. Now listen. There are a lot of people outside and they all want you to be safe. You understand that? They said I could come in and bring you out. PLATO Why? JIM They like you. Okay? PLATO Come on!JIM opens the door for PLATO, then follows him out. JUDYjoins them. JUDY Hi, Plato! PLATO Hi.Observatory as JIM, JUDY and PLATO come to the entrance.PLATO sees an OFFICER. PLATO Who's that? JIM Just a guard. PLATO I shot at one of them. JIM But you didn't hurt anybody.Outside observatory as PLATO and JIM come forward into theearly dawn. PLATO stops and looks off, scared.Slow pan shot. The crowd. It has grown enormously.Silence. There are armed officers everywhere--all waiting,alert.Med. shot. NEGRO WOMAN. Her eyes are moist. Her lips movein silent prayer.Med. shot. JIM's parents. The FATHER looking on anxiously.The MOTHER is crying against the car.Med. shot. JIM and PLATO. PLATO Those aren't my friends. Make them go away. JIM (tense; calling past camera) Ray! Will you tell these guys to move back?Suddenly PLATO bolts. JIM wheels after him. JIM (yelling) Plato! Don't be a fool!Full shot. Planetarium as PLATO dashes to the stairwayleading to the balcony.JIM'S FATHER and MOTHER. Their faces reflect panic as theysee PLATO running in JIM's coat. MOTHER It's Jim!Full shot. Balcony. Shooting down the stairs as PLATOrushes up. JIM closes behind him. Camera pans with PLATOas he climbs the ladder to the ledge of the small dome. JIMstops at the foot of the ladder. JIM Plato! PLATO Keep away from me! I don't believe you anymore!He raises the gun as if to shoot JIM. An OFFICER drops toone knee and fires a shot at PLATO.Full shot. Small dome. PLATO drops like a stone to JIM'sfeet.Close-up. JIM. JIM (screaming--wildly) But I've got the bullets! The gun was empty!Close shot. NEGRO WOMAN as she screams, a handkerchief inher mouth.Close shot. JUDY. She sobs once and runs up steps.Med. shot. JIM staring down at PLATO. JIM Plato? (crouches over PLATO) Plato. Hey, Jerkpot!There is nothing. He rises and faces the crowd, shaking hishead in wonder and reproach. JIM (quiet) What did you have to do that for?Full shot, the roof. Parents and Officers. The NEGRO WOMANis hysterical. RAY shoves past her, followed by JIM'SFATHER and MOTHER. They rush toward camera.Ambulance crew. They spring into action, arrive withstretcher.The balcony. JIM is at PLATO's side. A couple of OFFICERSrush forward to take JIM. The FATHER comes in and pushesthem aside. FATHER Let him alone! He's mine! I'll take care of him!RAY, who has witnessed this, motions to the officers. RAY It's all right! It's all right!The FATHER stares down at JIM for a moment. Then he kneelsbeside his son, puts his coat over JIM's shoulders. Hespeaks very gently. FATHER For a minute...that jacket...I thought... (breaks off, then) You couldn't help it, son. (reaches out, gently, but firmly) You did everything a man could do.He takes JIM by the elbow and starts to bring him to hisfeet. The boy suddenly resists, and remains kneeling. FATHER Stand up, Jim. I'll stand up with you. Let me try to be as strong as you want me to be.A faint hope appears in the boy's face. He no longerresists as the FATHER helps him to rise. But he still keepshis back to him. The ambulance attendants start puttingPLATO on a stretcher. JIM moves, as if to stop them, butthe FATHER still holds his shoulders. JIM He depended on me. FATHER And you can depend on me, son. Trust me. Whatever comes we'll face it together, I swear.JIM feels, for the first time, the love and security he hasalways wanted. He clutches at his FATHER, crying unashamedly.The FATHER's arms envelop him. PLATO, through his death,has helped these two find each other.Close shot. JUDY and RAY watching.Low angle. NEGRO WOMAN as she bends over PLATO's body. NEGRO WOMAN (as they lift PLATO onto litter) This poor baby got nobody. Just nobody.As he is carried past her, she follows.Balcony stairs. From below as JIM, supported by his FATHER,comes down. RAY is behind them. They pause for a silentmeeting with the MOTHER at foot of the stairs. She kissesJIM and starts wiping his tears away, but he is weepingsoundlessly and it does no good.JIM looks back up at the dome. The ambulance attendants arebearing PLATO's litter down the last few stairs, followed bythe NEGRO WOMAN.Group. The ambulance attendants come down the last fewstairs followed by the NEGRO WOMAN. JIM steps forwardsuddenly and adjusts the blanket covering PLATO. JUDY comesto JIM's side. The litter passes camera and we hold on twoshot of JIM and JUDY, seen against the lightening sky. JIM (to JUDY, half to himself) He was always cold.JUDY moves to JIM and touches his arm lightly. He looksdown at her.Med. shot. The group. JIM's arm is around JUDY as he leadsher, firmly, towards his MOTHER and FATHER. His voice iswarm, brimming with the new found pride he takes in hisparents as he introduces JUDY to them. JIM Mom--Dad--this is my friend. Her name is Judy.The parents nods warmly and smile at her. She smiles shylyin response, happy at being accepted. There is a warmthemanating from the tight little group. Changes havehappened to them. Old things have been shed and a new starthas been made. Camera booms--pulls back high to:High general shot. Planetarium, JIM and JUDY, FATHER andMOTHER threading their way through the crowd as the cameracontinues to pull back. FADE OUT. The end.