ALIEN NATION Original Screenplay by Rockne S. O'Bannon Rewrite by James Cameron October 1987FADE IN:EXT. MOJAVE DESERT - DAY (TELEVISION IMAGE)A LONG LENS SHOT of a far distant metallic object hoveringjust above the ground -- maybe two or three miles away.The heat waves and the light refraction off the desert-scape make the object undulate rhythmically, keeping itstrue shape and appearance indistinct.The VIDEO CAMERA recording this scene zooms back, thenpans over -- revealing a semicircle of US Army vehiclesand personnel. Army Engineers with their tripod-mountedscopes and binoculars are shoulder to shoulder with thearmed infantry. Everyone stares off at the same point onthe horizon. Waiting.The VIDEO CAMERA movements are HANDHELD, unsteady, as itmoves through the line of Army personnel to reveal asecond, less organized semicircle of observers fifty yardsbehind the Army. LOCALS from nearby towns perch in truckbeds and on car roofs, Budweiser and Fritos at hand, eyesglued to the distant object.The VIDEO CAMERA image climbs up onto the roof of a parkedlocal TV van, finds the object again in the distance,zooms in, and waits, like everyone else.Abruptly the VIDEO IMAGE contracts, becoming a boxCHROMAKEYED behind CNN reporter DUNCAN CRAIS. CRAIS That was the scene in California's Mojave Desert three years ago today -- the historic first view of the Newcomer ship upon its dramatic arrival. As with the assassination of John Kennedy, who among us does not remember exactly where he was that October nineteenth morning, when news first broke: that people have landed... from another star.We PULL BACK from a large television set to reveal...INT. A CROWDED BAR - LOS ANGELES - NIGHTThe Hollowpoint Lounge -- a cop bar.The off-duty uniformed and plainclothes cops are mostlyignoring the TV, except for two detectives, FEDORCHUK andALTEREZ, who are waiting for the ball scores. FEDORCHUK I remember where I was -- pissing off my balcony at the neighbor's dog!Others laugh. ALTEREZ (yells at Crais on TV) Get to the goddamn ball scores!ON THE TV SCREEN, an on-location interview with a CAL-TECHPROFESSOR comes up. Her name and title appear across thebottom of the screen. CAL-TECH PROFESSOR From the time mankind first gazed up at the stars there had been speculation about a visit by people from "out there." How ironic that when that first contact was made, the two hundred and sixty thousand occupants aboard the craft were as surprised as we were about their arrival. That they awakened from frozen hibernation to find their malfunctioning autopilot had landed them here by mistake.The CNN reporter, Duncan Crais, appears again. CRAIS These "Newcomers," we soon learned, were a genetically-engineered race, adapted for hard labor in almost any environmental condition. In effect, their ship was a slave ship... washed ashore on Earth with no way to get back to where they came from...A dishwasher tray filled with beer glasses CUTS ACROSSFRAME, and we PAN WITH IT as it is slammed down on thecountertop.Now an interview with a FRESNO HOUSEWIFE standing outsidea supermarket comes on the TV SCREEN. FRESNO HOUSEWIFE When the Newcomers were first let out of the ship, they were quarantined in a camp not ten miles from the town here. You can imagine how the people around here felt about that. But once they were releases from the camp and we got a chance to know them, we saw what nice, quiet people they really are...WIDERrevealing a MASSIVE ALIEN FIGURE in a filthy whitebusboy's uniform. His back is to us as he picks up twotrays from the counter. The bartender is dwarfed by thisNewcomer, but works around him without apparent concern.Fedorchuk addresses the alien busboy. FEDORCHUK Hey, Henry, how you doin' tonight? Workin' hard?The Newcomer turns -- his face is humanoid, butdisturbingly alien. FEDORCHUK You got your green card, buddy? You didn't leave home without it?The cops at the bar crack up. Henry looks at Fedorchuk --his eyes carrying no malice... or pain. He merely blinks. CUT TO:INT./ EXT. SLUG-MOBILE - STREET - NIGHTAn explosion of color and movement as OPENING TITLES PLAYvery quickly. We're TRAVELING the streets in a n.d.sedan, getting MOVING GLIMPSES of the aliens living amongus now:-- A coffee shop where aliens eat at some window tables.-- A Newcomer leaving a night school with an armload ofbooks.-- A city park where a number of alien families havegathered to play some arcane alien game. SYKES Jeez... they call that gang-bang a game...?-- A billboard for Pepsi featuring an alien.-- The sedan has pulled to a stop at a red light.Suddenly a hand thumps against the glass next to Sykes'head... and alien hand. Sykes jumps. It's a NEWCOMERDERELICT standing there, weaving, mumbling in his ownlanguage. In one filthy hand holds a quart carton ofmilk. We know immediately what he wants. Sykes rollsdown the window. SYKES Take a hike.Sykes gets a whiff of the derelict's breath as the lightchanges and the sedan pulls away, leaving him in thestreet. Sykes grimaces at the smell. SYKES Why's it have to be sour milk that these guys get wasted on? What the hell's wrong with Jack Daniels, or Thunderbird for chrissakes? (beat; disgusted) Slagtown. Shit...-- Aliens hanging around outside their homes.-- Alien hookers plying their trade. SYKES Hope their plumbing's the same. TUGGLE It is. (and Sykes gives him a look)-- A Newcomer lowrider pulls up beside the slug-mobile.-- An alien couple exit a theater playing "TerminatorIII".-- An alien wig shop.ANGLETITLES END, and we start to PULL BACK into the slug-mobileand HEAR: TUGGLE (O.S.) So you gonna go, or you not gonna go?INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTThe dashboard is littered with fast-food detritus and twocoffees in styrofoam cups making fog circles on thewindshield. A hand picks up one of the coffees and weFOLLOW IT to a face, a forty-year-old cop face that's seensome wear and tear -- behind the wheel is MATT SYKES.Beside him is his partner of nine years, BILL TUGGLE.Tuggle expertly munches on a slice of pizza as he talks. SYKES How can I go? TUGGLE Put on your wash-and-wear suit and your clip-on tie, have your landlady tie your shoes for you, and show up at the church. Simple. (beat) Me and Carol are going. SYKES What? TUGGLE Hey, look -- we've known Kristin since... since she was conceived in that cabin up in Big Bear. Remember? You and Edie banged the wall so hard, me and Carol were picking plaster out of our hair for a week... SYKES Goddammit, Tug -- I want to see Kristin get married, okay? But-- TUGGLE But you're bummed because your ex and her new husband are paying for the whole thing. SYKES Shit, if Kristin had to get married where I could afford it, we'd be holding the reception at Buddy's Burgers.Sykes stares out the window, wallowing in his pissed-offmood. Then he spots something that twinges his street-copradar. SYKES Uh-oh... Check it out.THROUGH THE WINDOW Tuggle sees what Sykes sees: two ALIENSin long coats moving down the sidewalk, entering a mom-and-pop mini-mart on the corner. One of them wears darkglasses and a red bandana (KIPLING): the other has on ablack vinyl raincoat. SYKES Does that look at all suspicious to you? TUGGLE Whatever gave you that idea?EXT. STREET - NIGHTSykes continues up a quarter of a block, pulls to the curbamong other parked cars.INT. SEDAN - NIGHTSykes is already pulling his gun. Tuggle quickly reachesfor the radio in the glovebox. TUGGLE This is one-Henry-seven, we've got a possible two-eleven in progress at Porter's Mini-Mart, corner of Court and Alvarado. Requesting backup.Impulsive Sykes is already opening his door and climbingout. SYKES Let's do it, partner.Tuggle drops the radio mike and follows Sykes as the RadioDispatcher confirms the call.EXT. STREET - NIGHTThe two cops, guns in hand, move along the row of parkedcars across the street from the mini-mart. Through thestore window they see the old alien PROPRIETOR behind thecounter. His eyes go wide as Kipling whips back his coatand yanks out a short combat pump-shotgun and aims itright at him. The Raincoat alien pulls an identical gunand covers the door.Sykes and Tuggle react to the firepower inside. SYKES You got your vest? TUGGLE Of course. Right in the trunk of the car. SYKES Yeah, that's comforting. Mine, too.Through the store window the robbery continues inpantomime. Kipling gestures viciously with the shotgun,yelling orders in the alien language. The Proprietor isquickly filling a paper bag with cash from the register.The PROPRIETOR'S WIFE, a middle-aged alien woman, standsin the doorway from the back, frozen in fear. TheRaincoat alien dances from foot to foot, antsy, wired.Sykes and Tuggle crouch at the car directly across thestreet from the store entrance. TUGGLE Watch the driver. I'm going for a better angle on the door. SYKES I got him. Don't get pinned.Tuggle leaves the cover provided by the car, runs cater-corner across the intersection.Through the store window Sykes sees Kipling grab the bagof cash, shove it in his coat pocket. Bills fall out, buthe doesn't care. Then, without warning, Kipling whips upthe twelve gauge and blows a hole in the Proprietor'schest! The Proprietor slams back against the shelves,slides to the floor. Kipling leans over the counter andFIRES another round into the Proprietor. SYKES (under his breath) Aw, shit.Tuggle is almost across the street when he hears theshots.The human DRIVER of the getaway car (parked at the curb afew doors down from the mini-mart) glances up, spotsTuggle. He leans on the HORN, reaches for a machinepistol on the seat next to him.INT. MINI-MART - NIGHTKipling and Raincoat alien react to the horn honk. Theyspot Tuggle through the store window and open fire --BLASTING THROUGH THE GLASS.A civilian car enters the intersection. The engine is hitby shotgun fire, and the car skids to a stop in theintersection, steam rising from the radiator.EXT. STREET - NIGHTTuggle dives behind a lamp post.The Driver is out of the car now, brings up the machinepistol to fire at Tuggle. Sykes sees this and opens fireat the Driver. The Driver turns and fires at Sykes.Sykes ducks down, and the car he's hiding behind issprayed with bullets.A forty-foot moving van pulls down the street betweenSykes and the Driver. Once the truck is past, Sykes isstanding behind the bullet-riddled car, gun ready. Herapid-fires -- creaming the human Driver.Tuggle is pinned down behind the thin lamp post by theshotgun fire from Kipling and Raincoat alien. SYKES Get outta there! TUGGLE I can't! Do you mind! SYKES I'll cover you! Get outta there!!Sykes rises and runs across the street toward the getawaycar, firing toward the store as he goes.Kipling and Raincoat dodge behind cover.Tuggle seizes the opportunity, jumps from behind the lamppost and runs to the stalled civilian car. He slidesacross the hood and drops behind the car for cover.Tuggle slowly pokes his head up to peer through the carwindow. His gaze is met by the face of the OLD MAN driverwho is still inside the car. OLD MAN Can I get out now? TUGGLE Move it!Sykes doesn't have a clear firing line on the aliens inthe store. As he considers his next move--Tuggle fires at the two aliens. They return fire and heslides down to safety behind the car. Or so he thinks.Glass rains down on him as the car windows are cremated bythe shotgun blasts. He flinches as another blast hits thecar. He looks over. There's a big exit hole in thefender beside him. THE SHOT WENT RIGHT THROUGH THE CAR.Another exit hole is BLASTED, inches from his shoulder.Panicked, he scrambles along the side of the car -- BLASTSand exit holes following him until he reaches the front ofthe car. He has nowhere left to go and---- a BLAST comes through the car and catches him squarelyin the chest throwing him back onto the street.Sykes' head jerks around -- in time to see his partner ofnine years blown away.Kipling keeps firing in Tuggle's direction until hisshotgun CLICKS empty.INT. MINI-MART - NIGHTKipling grabs Raincoat and throws him toward the back exitof the store. The shotgun falls from Raincoat's hands.The two of them run out the back.EXT. STREET - NIGHTSykes runs to Tuggle's spread-eagled body. One glance isenough. Nobody ever looked deader. SYKES Aw shit, Tug, Jesus! Goddamn it!He stares, shocked and incredulous. He can't find a wayto think or feel about this. Then we see him going crazyright before our eyes, the rage revving. He takes offtoward the store as SIRENS are HEARD rapidly approachingin background.INT. MINI-MART - NIGHTSykes moves through like a locomotive skidding on brokenglass, bangs through the exit.EXT. ALLEY - NIGHTSykes catches sight of the two aliens just as they roundthe corner at the far end of the alley. He takes off,quickly cranking up to full speed.EXT. BACK STREET - NIGHTSykes rounds the corner. Doesn't see them anymore. Heslows... moves along this street with some caution. Lotsof shadows, lots of hiding places. Sykes HEARS a NOISE,looks up... just in time to see Raincoat on a high, hugebillboard. He cuts loose with the shotgun. Sykes dives.Huge chunks of the crate he dives behind fly off into thenight. Sykes, on his belly, scrambles deeper among thecrates.Raincoat's shotgun CLICKS empty now. He drops it, swingsdown off the fire escape, runs off.Sykes is up again in a flash, pounding after him.EXT. TUNNEL STREET - NIGHTSykes rounds this second corner, races down the street.The only route they could've taken is through a tunnel upahead. Sykes approaches the tunnel, all senses wide open.INT. TUNNEL - NIGHTThe murkiness of the tunnel engulfs him as he movesthrough the mouth. He tries to control his breathing sohe can hear. The only SOUND is his own shoes scuffingalong the asphalt.Then he HEARS -- another set of FOOTSTEPS. Rapidfootsteps, coming toward him, ECHOING. He can't tell fromwhich direction! He spins, just as a LARGE SHAPE lungesfor him with an alien CRY.It's the wired Raincoat alien. Sykes gets his gun up justin time and FIRES -- once, twice, three times. Raincoatalien is knocked backwards to the wet asphalt by theblasts. Sykes approaches the body slowly. With aninhuman ROAR, the alien snaps forward, lunging at Sykeswith outstretched arms. Sykes jumps back, startled, andFIRES twice more at the pale figure. Raincoat goes downand stays down.Sykes relaxes for the briefest moment. Then he HEARSit... a distinctive CLICKING SOUND, metal on metal. Sykeslooks up and -- Kipling drops down on him from directlyabove! Sykes goes down in a heap. He's managed to holdonto the gun and as Kipling comes for him, he swings thegun hand around. Kipling sees it, lashes out, slammingthe gun from Sykes' hand. Sykes tries to get to his feet,but the alien grabs him and flings him down the tunnel.A SIREN is HEARD approaching in background.Kipling moves in to deliver the coup de grace. As hedraws near, Sykes HEARS that distinctive CLICKING SOUNDagain.SYKES' P.O.V.Though his vision is BLURRED, Sykes still gets a good lookat an exotic silver bracelet on the alien's wrist. Thestrands of this bracelet are what make the CLINKING NOISE.ANGLEThe alien rears back, and as he does, the approachingSIREN suddenly WAILS louder as a backup patrol car swingsonto the street heading this way. Kipling sees this andleaves Sykes, running off down the dark tunnel.ON SYKESdazed, struggling to rise. WE HEAR running FOOTSTEPSapproaching. Sykes turns, his eyes wild and unfocused.SYKES' P.O.V.An OUT-OF-FOCUS ALIEN FACE looming over him.ANGLESykes whips around in a roundhouse swing with all hisweight on it, pistoning his fist straight into the alienface. The alien, caught by surprise and off balance,sprawls backward OUT OF FRAME. Sykes is grabbed by ahuman uniformed cop, as he tries to swing again. HUMAN COP Whoa, whoa... hold it. Take it easy. (to alien on the ground) You okay?Sykes stops struggling, and his eyes focus. He looks atthe alien he just decked, sprawled on his ass ten feetaway. The alien is a uniformed cop... his name is JETSON. JETSON I am all right.He gets up. A trickle of purple blood runs from his nose. HUMAN COP I better call in.He moves off. Jetson moves toward Sykes and the Raincoatalien's body. Sykes tenses, thinking Jetson mightretaliate in some way. But Jetson simply steps past himto kneel beside the dead alien. He checks for a pulse onthe underside of the dead alien's upper arm. Nothing.Sykes is holding his punching hand in obvious pain. Hestruggles to rise. Jetson gets an arm around him to helphim up. JETSON Your hand will require attention.Sykes roughly jerks himself free of Jetson's grip. SYKES Get the hell away from me! I don't need your goddamn help.He almost loses his balance and has to steady himselfagainst the tunnel wall. Sykes leans there, the pictureof impotent rage and frustration. Jetson looks at him,with that slight inquisitive expression aliens exhibitwhen trying to understand human nature.EXT. MINI-MART - NIGHTOPEN on Tuggle's body, as the body bag is zipped up overhis face, and the litter is lifted into the back of theCoroner's wagon.WIDEN to reveal Sykes, standing nearby, watching. TheWagon pulls out, and Sykes turns, moving past all the LAPDblack-and-whites and forensics wagons, and COPS (two ofthem aliens) and DETECTIVES, and RUBBERNECKERS (somealien). He moves into:INT. MINI-MART - NIGHTThe CRIME SCENE TEAM is checking for prints, digging slugsout of the wall, photographing everything. SeveralUNIFORMED COPS mill around. Sykes moves aimlessly aroundthe room like a stranger at a party.The Proprietor's Wife stands near the body in a strangerigid posture, a thin, mournful KEENING SOUND coming fromher lips. A harried female uniformed cop is trying to gether away from the body, but can't get her to budge.MINKLER, a ballistics guy, is tagging the pump-shotgun theRaincoat alien dropped here. NATUZZI, a mean-lookingveteran uniform cop is with him. NATUZZI Looks like a standard combat pump- action. MINKLER It is. NATUZZI So what punched holes clear through that car out there?Minkler pulls an evidence baggie from his work box.Inside are four unfired twelve gauge shells. MINKLER BRI Sabot slugs. These puppies are nasty. Two plastic sabots fall away in flight leaving a fifty-caliber slug going two thousand feet per second. Tug might as well've been hiding behind a rosebush.Minkler senses somebody has just stepped up beside him.He looks. It's Sykes. NATUZZI Pretty heavy artillery for knocking over a liquor store.A new voice enters the conversation. JETSON (O.S.) An identical round was used in the shooting of a Newcomer named Hubley, two days ago.Sykes turns -- surprised, and not especially pleased tosee the voice is Jetson's. MINKLER Yeah? So why the extra fire power? JETSON Perhaps because even the larger caliber handguns aren't always effective against my people. SYKES (mulls this, then) You saying there's some connection to this other homicide?Before Jetson can say, the female cop who was talking tothe Proprietor's Wife steps up. FEMALE COP Hey, give me a hand with this woman, will ya Jetson? We've got to get her to Division for her statement and she won't budge. JETSON (to Sykes) Excuse me.And he moves off with his partner. Sykes calls after him,but Jetson is already approaching the woman and doesn'tturn. SYKES So, you think there's a connection, or what? Hey! CUT TO:EXT. SYKES' APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHTThe slug-mobile pulls up. A drained Sykes moves up thewalk to his front door.INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - NIGHTSykes enters his apartment, an untidy bachelor placedecorated with negative taste. It's obviously the maid'sdecade off.By rote, he hits the rewind switch on the answeringmachine on his way into the kitchen. The tape rewinds.He opens the fridge. Not much here. Left-over take-outpizza carton. Left-over take-out Chinese food cartons.Left-over take-out burger wrappers. The answering machine message begins -- he glances overhis shoulder as he HEARS his daughter's VOICE. During thefollowing, he reaches the fridge. Brings out a milkcarton that's in his way, sets it on the counter. Reachesin again and this time brings out a bottle of Stoly. Thensearches for a semi-clean glass. KRISTIN'S VOICE (bouncy, bride-to-be happy) Hi, Daddy, it's me. I'm over at Danny's parents' house... talking about Sunday. I thought maybe you'd be home by now. Anyway, uh, nothing really. I just wanted to call and say I love you. I love you, Daddy. (she giggles) Uh-oh, I shouldn't'a done that. Knowing you, you'll probably pull this tape out of your machine and save it -- in that drawer where you keep every card I ever gave you, and all of my old baby teeth... gross! Anyway, Daddy, don't save this tape -- but I do love you, and I'll talk to you before Sunday. (beat) Oh, Tug and Carol came by and met Danny last week. (Sykes stiffens) Danny thought Tug was the greatest -- but, then, who doesn't? Anyway, love you, talk to you soon. 'Bye.The machine BEEPS and HISSES. Sykes take the glass andthe bottle of vodka, crosses back toward the living room,switching off the answering machine as he goes.Then he stops, turns back, takes the message tape out ofthe machine and tosses it into a drawer. FADE TO:INT. DETECTIVE SQUAD ROOM - DAYSykes enters, stirring a jumbo coffee. He's slept aboutfour hours, and his face looks like he went a few withHagler. He crosses straight to Fedorchuk's desk. SYKES So what've you got on Tuggle's killers? FEDORCHUK Jesus, Sykes -- it's been less than ten hours. Me and Alterez are on it, okay? SYKES You don't have squat. FEDORCHUK You ever try to make a case in Slagtown? The list of Newcomer informants is about as long as the list of Mexican war heroes... ALTEREZ Up yours. FEDORCHUK ... Nobody talks to nobody down there. Half of them don't speak English and the other half only when it suits them. It's gonna take some time. SYKES Yeah, I know it's gonna take time. Like until the Ice Capades opens in Hell, with you two on it.Across the room, the Captain's door BANGS open and CAPTAINWARNER pounds out, his deep voice booming through thesquad room. WARNER Nobody wanders off! I got an announcement. Get your asses back in here.Two detectives on their way out, stop, and head back intothe room. Everybody gathers around, curious, as Warnerstands holding a sheet of paper. WARNER I'll make this short. This is a directive from Chief Evaner, who is acting on orders from the Mayor, who is under mandate from the Federal Bureau of Newcomer Relations. As of nine o'clock this morning, one Newcomer uniform officer has been promoted to the rank of Detective, third grade.The detectives GROAN... some angrier ones grumble, "Thisis bullshit!", etc. WARNER And we've got him, gentleman. (more groans) Volunteers for duty with the new detective should see me in my office... otherwise I will choose a volunteer myself. That is all.He turns and heads back to his office in the wake ofcontinued grumbling from the detectives. Sykes, standingto one side, absently watches Warner return to his glass-walled office. Waiting inside are a balding man and analien in a grey suit. Sykes reacts. The alien in thesuit is Jetson.The grumbling continues around him as Sykes considerssomething. FEDORCHUK Unbelievable bullshit. ALTEREZ How long has this Slag been on the force? A year, max -- right? DETECTIVE I don't know about the rest of you, but I sure as hell ain't gonna sit still for this. I'm calling the union, pronto.Others grumble. "Yeah!". Meanwhile, Sykes has decidedsomething. He heads toward Warner's office. Fedorchuksees this. FEDORCHUK Where the hell is he going?INT. WARNER'S OFFICE - DAYSykes KNOCKS and enters. WARNER Yeah, Sykes? SYKES Captain. I'd like to volunteer for duty with the new detective.Warner is surprised. He never expected Sykes. WARNER ... All right. Detective Sergeant Sykes, this is Detective... Jetson. JETSON We have met.Warner looks up, clocking this. He looks at Sykes,starting to smell something fishy.The balding man, GOLDRUP, rises to shake their hands. GOLDRUP Victor Goldrup, Mayor's office. Congratulations, gentlemen.Warner is starting to suspect what Sykes is up to. WARNER (to Sykes) You are to have nothing to do with the investigation into Bill Tuggle's death. You know that. Leave that for Fedorchuk. SYKES (nodding) Departmental policy. WARNER (to Jetson) You? JETSON Yes, sir. WARNER Good. SYKES There's another case I'd like to take. A homicide -- a Newcomer named Hubley.Jetson looks over at Sykes, knows he's up to something.Sykes avoids his look. WARNER Granger and Pitts are already on it. SYKES Granger and Pitts have one hell of a caseload... and I would have thought with Jetson here being the first Newcomer plainclothes, and Hubley's body being found over in the Newcomer community... WARNER Don't tell me what to think. GOLDRUP He's got a point. That's the sort of thing we should be doing with this early advancement program...Long-suffering Warner looks up at Goldrup, then finallysighs with resignation. Sykes grins. CUT TO:INT. STAIRWELL - FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - DAYThe steel door BANGS open and Sykes and Jetson exit. Nextto Sykes' slept-in look, Jetson in his grey suit lookslike a Jehovah's Witness canvasser. They move past allthe black-and-whites pulling out on p.m. watch during: SYKES ... and we work my hours. I'll do the driving, you do the paperwork. You gotta learn it so you might as well do it all. JETSON (after a moment) Sergeant... I'd like to thank you for what you're doing. SYKES What's that? (then realizing) Look, Jetson. Get this straight in your head. We're not pals, we're not married, and we ain't gonna take long moonlight walks together... We're just partners. And don't call me Sergeant. Call me Sykes... or Matt if you have to. JETSON I am George.Sykes nods absently, and they walk on... four and a halfsteps to be exact. Then it hits Sykes. He seizes upcold. SYKES Wait a minute. George? George Jetson?Jetson nods... he's used to this.Sykes cracks up. SYKES (between laughs) Man, somebody really hung one on you! I've heard some good ones for you guys... Humphrey Bogart, Harley Davidson. I guess the people at immigration got a little punchy after a while, coming up with names for a quarter of a million of you. You weren't at the back of the line, were you, George? JETSON My true name is Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'. SYKES Gesundheit. You don't mind if I stick to George, do you?EXT. POLICE STATION PARKING AREA - DAYThey approach Sykes' ugly sedan, the slug-mobile. SYKES Anyway, what's it matter to you if we think it's funny, right? Whatta you care? JETSON That is exactly so. (completely deadpan) It is like your name... Sykes. I'm sure it doesn't bother you at all that it sounds like "ss'ai k'ss", two words in my language which mean "excrement" and "cranium".Sykes looks at him, perplexed. JETSON "Shit... head".Jetson gets in and slams the door, leaving Sykes standingthere, the smirk dropping from his face. CUT TO:INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DAYThey're cruising along in downtown traffic. Sykes drives.Jetson is somewhat cramped in the passenger seat. SYKES Let's talk Hubley. JETSON (refers to a folder he holds) His body was discovered three days ago, in an alley off of Central Avenue, near downtown. SYKES With two BRI Sabot slugs in the chest. JETSON (gently correcting him) Through the chest. Rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts. SYKES (out the window) Nice signal, dickwad!Jetson is momentarily thrown by this outburst from Sykes.Then... JETSON He was employed at the Northwest Petroleum Refinery in Torrance. He was manager of the Methane Facility. He was also a principle partner in a real estate venture to develop low- cost housing for Newcomers.Sykes grimaces at the mention of "Newcomer housing". SYKES Terrific. A real pillar of the community. (beat) Was Hubley missing anything when they found him? Was he ripped off? JETSON (checks file) There was no wallet... but he was still wearing a watch and two rings. SYKES The guys at the mini-mart last night made a half-assed stab at the money in the till -- but I don't think that's what they were there for. I think we got us a couple'a executions on our hands, George... JETSON The murder at the mini-mart is not our case. The Captain said--Sykes looks over at Jetson, pissed. SYKES Look, you want to fit in here, right? You want to learn how to get along? JETSON Yes. SYKES Well, there's a thing about partners, about being somebody's partner. You do for each other. And other people's rules don't mean shit. It's the rules set up between the two of you, that's all that counts. Understand? (Jetson nods) Okay. Well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I'm after the shitbag that did it. As my partner, I'm asking you to respect me and help me find him.Jetson considers this several moments, then-- JETSON And as my partner, I ask you to respect me and my desire not to break with procedure.Sykes stares at him, exasperated. Without warning, heslams the car to a stop right in the middle of heavytraffic, puts it in "Park." Jetson, who is already alittle too close to the dashboard, bangs up against it.HORNS instantly go crazy behind them. JETSON What is wrong? SYKES (very calm) Nothing's wrong. I just want to get something straight. You agree that there's a good chance these two shootings are somehow related, right?YELLING joins the HORNS outside. Jetson is visiblyunsettled by the chaos. JETSON Well... yes, quite possibly. SYKES Possibly. Good. Well, would you be willing to accept the theory, George, that... possibly... by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other? Does that sound unreasonable to you? JETSON Yes... no, it is not unreasonable. Although I-- SYKES Great. (a relieved sigh) Well, I'm sure glad that's settled, aren't you?And with that he puts the car in gear and pulls rapidlyout. SYKES I think we're really starting to click now, George -- hmmm?Jetson doesn't know what to think -- he just holds on. CUT TO:INT. HALLWAY - L.A. COUNTY MORGUE - DAYWINTER, a deputy Medical Examiner (human), is leadingSykes and Jetson along the hall. He reads on the fly froma case file in his hand. WINTER You know I've been over all this with Fedorchuk and Alterez this morning... SYKES Come on. You got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours.INT. AUTOPSY ROOM - DAYThey enter briskly through a swinging door. They moveamong the tables (some occupied, some not) during: WINTER Yeah, right. Don't push your luck. Anyway, according to the sheet, the guy you nailed outside by the car-- SYKES The human? WINTER Yeah... he was one Martin Helder. White male, twenty-seven. Let's see... wrap sheet shows one armed robbery conviction, a couple for sale of a controlled substance. Oh yeah, and he was wired on coke when you stopped his clock.They have reached a table holding a covered body. Winterunceremoniously throws back the cover. There lies thepale naked body of the Raincoat alien. JETSON Have you identified this one? WINTER So far he's a John Doe. Or a Sam Slag, if you like.Jetson smiles slightly out of politeness. WINTER No I.D. on him and -- well, you know, no fingerprints -- so it could be tough. Your buddies this morning went through the mug book but couldn't make a facial match. SYKES Fedorchuk couldn't find his ass with his hands in his back pockets.Jetson nonchalantly looks over the alien body while Winterand Sykes continue talking off to one side. WINTER (referring to Raincoat alien) You took this gut out, too, didn't you? SYKES Yeah. WINTER Lucky for you, you got him in both of his... well, what we loosely refer to as... hearts. SYKES Lucky nothing. I had to empty my damn gun into him. WINTER That's the way these people are. You don't hit both pumps you just piss them off.During this, Jetson has turned the dead alien's hand over-- sees something that brings a frown of curiosity to hisface. He leans closer, examining the palm carefully.Then he peels back the alien's upper lip.Jetson frowns anew, with concern this time. He looksaround, spots a Newcomer lab assistant nearby -- BENTNER.Jetson motions him over. Jetson begins questioning himusing the alien language. Sykes and Winter nearby, remainoblivious. WINTER Oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one. (hands Sykes a polariod of dead alien's face) We're just about to start cutting in. You're welcome to stick around if you want. It's really fascinating stuff. SYKES Yeah, I'll bet.Sykes looks over, now noticing Jetson and Bentner inearnest conversation. He only catches snatches of thealien language. Bentner appears very unsettled by whatJetson is telling him. In response to Jetson's finalstatement, Bentner nods -- as if agreeing to do somethingJetson has requested. Sykes goes over to Jetson. SYKES What's this? What's going on? JETSON Nothing. SYKES (really suspicious now) Nothing? JETSON (looking away) Shouldn't we examine their personal effects?Jetson moves off, leaving Sykes there wondering. CUT TO:INT. PROPERTY ROOM - COUNTY MORGUE - DAYTwo large plastic packets are dumped of their contentsonto a formica counter. Sykes looks through the deadalien's effects while Jetson goes through the human's.ORTIZ, the college girl working the property counter, sitsnearby doing homework.Jetson holds up a little foil packet with a puzzled frown. JETSON What is this? SYKES (looks, then) A rubber. A condom. You know... Coney Island whitefish? (Jetson doesn't know what one is) Men, human men, put them on their, uh -- penises -- to protect against having babies. (Jetson still doesn't get it; Sykes turns to Ortiz) You need this for anything? ORTIZ Nope, got my own. Anything you guys don't use gets stuffed away in storage.Sykes tears open the packet, unrolls the condom, danglesit before Jetson. SYKES Get the picture? JETSON (frowning) And that fits? SYKES Well... Yeah, it's rubber. It stretches. JETSON And still it fits?Sykes looks at Jetson's serious expression. He tosses thecondom and packet back into the counter and continuessearching. A beat, then he can't stop himself -- hesteals a glance at Jetson's crotch.Still searching, Sykes picks up one of the dead alien'swell-worn heavy work boots. He grimaces... the sides andsoles are painted with a viscous black substance. He verytentatively sniffs it... and is grateful that it's notwhat he thought it might be. SYKES What is this stuff?Sykes gets some on his hands, doesn't know where to wipeit. Jetson glances over. JETSON It is a resin.Sykes looks at him... surprised that he knows. JETSON (continuing) Newcomers working near methane gasses at oil refineries must paint it on their boots to protect against sparks. SYKES How the hell do you know that? JETSON A large number of my people were hired by refineries because the methane fumes are not harmful to us. My spouse's brother is one. SYKES So the Slag they're cutting into upstairs worked at a refinery just like Hubley worked at a refinery. (beat) I'd say that "possible" connection between the two cases just got a hell of a lot more possible. (beat) Okay, next step -- I gotta go talk to the wife of the Slag store owner blown away last night. JETSON I believe I should interview the widow alone. SYKES Why the hell--?! (realizes it's because of his lack of "bedside manner") Great, fine. You talk to the wife. CUT TO:INT./ EXT. MINI-MART - LATE AFTERNOONThe shattered windows have been covered with plywood.Through the open doorway we see Jetson talking to theProprietor's Wife. She studies a photo Jetson shows her,nods her head, speaking rapidly in the alien language. CUT TO:EXT. REFINERY - LATE AFTERNOONSykes drives along beside the mammoth, steaming network ofbuildings and pipes that make up the refinery. CUT TO:INT. REFINERY - LATE AFTERNOONThrough the loud and smoky refinery we see Sykes walkingwith the newly promoted Methane Section manager, O'NEAL,in tie and shirtsleeves. The workmen around them are bothhuman and Newcomer. O'NEAL (yelling over the roar) Mr. Hubley was an all right guy -- and a damn good manager. The men liked him. I'm really gonna have to scramble to fill his shoes. SYKES Well, one of the men didn't like him so much...They stop and Sykes hands O'Neal the polariod photo ofRaincoat alien. They have stopped near the heavyrefrigeration-type door leading to the "METHANE SECTION".Newcomer workers move in and out through the door during: O'NEAL (looking at photo) You think this is the guy who did it? SYKES We think he could'a been involved, yeah. You know him? O'NEAL To be honest, it's hard to say. I hate to admit it but -- they all still kinda look alike to me. SYKES (impatient) Who else can I ask around here? O'NEAL (looking at photo again) Wait. You know who it looks like? Yeah. Anderson. Uh... James Anderson. He isn't in today. He took the afternoon off. SYKES I think you're gonna find he's taken the rest of his life off.O'Neal reacts. Sykes notices the door to the MethaneSection. SYKES That where Anderson worked? O'NEAL Yes it is. (some alien workers come through the door) Thirty-five percent pure Methane gas in there. I don't know how these fellas do it.Sykes watches two more alien workers pass back through thedoor. O'Neal watches Sykes' expression for signs ofsuspicion. CUT TO:HIGH ANGLE SHOT - SYKES AND O'NEALWe see Sykes hand O'Neal a card, then move off. O'Nealwatches him briefly, then crosses to some steps and startsup this way.We PAN with him as he enters a door here on the secondlevel. CUT TO:INT. METHANE SECTION CONTROL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOONO'Neal enters, moves to a telephone, begins to dial.Beyond is a glass wall overlooking the Methane Section. CUT TO:ANGLE - BELOWCAMERA TRACKS through the Methane Section... past thealien workers in lab whites... past all the arcaneequipment and chemical procedures... ending in an EXTREMECLOSE UP of a small cylindrical dispenser as it fillsslowly with a pale blue, viscous liquid. CUT TO:INT./ EXT. SLUG-MOBILE - JETSON'S STREET - DUSKWe're SHOOTING THROUGH the slug-mobile window as Sykespulls up in front of Jetson's modest but immaculatelymaintained home on the outskirts of Slagtown. Jetson'sWIFE, an attractive alien woman, stands watering the lawnwith a garden hose. Jetson's son, age six, rides hisbicycle along the walkway. Jetson, dressed in his suitfor work, crouches near the walkway, playing with his son.Sykes pulls the car toward the curb, rolls his eyes. SYKES Jesus. Welcome back Ozzie and Harriet...He HONKS the horn. Jetson looks up, then moves to hiswife and kisses her goodbye. Moves to his son, kisses himon the top of his head.Sykes watches all this... and as he does, slowly hisderisive expression softens. As corny as this tableau maybe, there's something very appealing about the innocenceof it... even to an unrepentant cynic like Sykes.Jetson starts to climb into the car, and we-- CUT TO:INT. RESTROOM - BILTMORE HOTEL - NIGHTCLOSE on an alien hand as it removes one of the drugdispensers from a tuxedo pocket. As the hand brings thedispenser toward the face, we immediately recognize theexotic silver bracelet worn by Kipling the night before.It makes that distinctive CLINKING NOISE. We PAN with thehand to reveal Kipling's face... sans bandana andsunglasses now. He wears a black tuxedo. He lets a smalldab of the blue gel curl from the dispenser onto histongue. He swallows... and reacts as the rush from thedrug hits him.The door to the men's room bangs open and a MIDDLE AGEDPOLITICO enters, obviously drunk.Kipling quickly pockets the dispenser, moves past thePolitico to the exit... CUT TO:INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTSykes drives, heading for the Biltmore Hotel. JETSON Mrs. Porter is not taking her husband's death well. SYKES (impatient) Did you learn anything? JETSON A week ago two men came to see her husband. After they left, he was very frightened. She identified one of the men from a photo I showed her. It was Hubley. SYKES Aw-right. What about the other guy? JETSON She didn't know him. But she said her son might. SYKES Did you talk to him? JETSON He has not been home since that day. But she told me where to find him.Sykes nods. CUT TO:INT. MAIN BALLROOM - BILTMORE HOTEL - NIGHTThe men are in tuxedos, the women in evening gowns. Onlytwo of three Newcomers faces present. Kipling threads hisway among the tables as the MAYOR, at the speaker'splatform, addresses the assembly. MAYOR ... Our guest speaker tonight has done so much in his community and for his community in such a short period of time. And I must say, as the founder of the first Newcomer owned and operated corporation in Southern California, he certainly has come quite far in the last few years. Granted, not as far as he came in the years before reaching Los Angeles.There is laughter from the VIPs. Kipling slides into aseat at one of the front tables. He leans over andwhispers something into the ear of the person seated tohis right. We see this CLOSE UP, and don't see who he iswhispering to yet. Whoever it is, nods. MAYOR (continuing) As Mayor of this city, it gives me great pleasure to introduce someone who has so readily made our city his home... and all of us who live here, his friends. Ladies and gentlemen, William Harcourt.The VIPs applaud as the spotlight sweeps over to a fronttable. At first it hits Kipling, then it adjusts tocapture WILLIAM HARCOURT, seated to Kipling's right.Harcourt is an exemplar of the successful Newcomerentrepreneur... handsome, charming, with cool blue eyesthat glint with his piercing intellect. He rises, smilingwarmly, steps past his striking ALIEN DATE seated to hisright, to make his way to the podium. He shields his eyessomewhat from the bright spotlight.Once behind the podium, he slips his notes from a breastpocket as the applause ebbs. HARCOURT Thank you all for that very warm reception. (pauses, smiles) I'm particularly grateful because I actually had the gall to write that in my notes: "Thank you all for that very warm reception". Imagine how embarrassed I would've been if it hadn't have been such a warm reception.The VIPs laugh. He's won them over instantly with hischarm and candor. CUT TO:INT. BILTMORE HOTEL - FOYER - NIGHTSykes, followed by a reluctant Jetson, bears down onHarcourt, who is exiting the hotel with his Date, andKipling. We see Kipling recognize Sykes from their fighttwo nights before... but because Kipling looks sodifferent, Sykes doesn't recognize him outright. Still,during this, Sykes senses something, though he's not surewhat. SYKES William Harcourt? HARCOURT Yes... SYKES I'm Sergeant Sykes, and this is Detective Jetson, Los Angeles Police Department. HARCOURT (nodding greeting) Sergeant... Detective. I wasn't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet. JETSON I am the first. HARCOURT Congratulations. This is my administrative assistant, Rudyard Kipling. SYKES (throw away) Rudyard Kipling? No shit? (to Harcourt) Listen, we just need a minute of your time... JETSON We'd like to ask you about a business associate of your, Warren Hubley. HARCOURT Yes, I heard about poor Warren. Tragic. SYKES You were partners with him on some Slag -- uh, Newcomer real estate thing. HARCOURT That's right. He and I, along with seven or eight others. Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can -- unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function.Suddenly there's a voice from O.S.: MAYOR (O.S.) William...Harcourt turns as the Mayor and his WIFE step up. HARCOURT Mr. Mayor... MAYOR William, I was wondering if you wouldn't rather ride with Luisa and me. Two limousines trying to make it across town in all this traffic, we're bound to be later than we already are. HARCOURT Excellent idea. Ray, I wonder if you know two of your police officers... Detective Jetson and Sykes. MAYOR (shaking their hands, dismissively) A pleasure. (to Harcourt) We really should be going.The wind is knocked from Sykes' sails by the presence ofthe Mayor with a very impatient expression. Harcourtsmiles. HARCOURT (continuing) Please feel free to call my office Monday morning for an appointment. (to Jetson) Congratulations again on your promotion, Detective. Remember... you're out there setting an example in our community. I'll be keeping an eye on you.Harcourt is smiling as he says this last, but his eyes arepenetrating... telegraphing a subliminal warning.Harcourt and entourage move off... leaving Sykes steaming. CUT TO:EXT. BILTMORE HOTEL - HARCOURT AND KIPLING - NIGHTWalking behind the others. They speak in very low voices;Harcourt continuing to nod and smile to other passing VIPsduring: KIPLING That cop, the human, he was the one who killed Anderson and the driver. HARCOURT This is becoming a serious breach of security. KIPLING He didn't recognize me. HARCOURT It is his new partner that I'm worried about. CUT TO:INT. POLICE FIRING RANGE - FRONT DESK - NIGHTMAFFET, the stocky retired cop behind the counter, handsJetson a bag of reloads and some silhouette targets.Sykes nods to Jetson, motioning him toward the firingline. SYKES Go on ahead. I'll be right in. (to Maffet, low) What'd you dig up for me?Maffet slides open a drawer, takes out a paper bagcontaining a massive pistol with an enormous bore. Byhis manner this deal is definitely not kosher. Sykeshefts the weapon. MAFFET You said you wanted the biggest thing I could find... Well, this is it. SYKES What is it? MAFFET Casull .454 Magnum. You're talking twice the impact energy of .44 Magnum hot loads. SYKES (flips open cylinder) Only holds five. MAFFET Yeah, the shells are too big for six in an cylinder. Hell, Matt, you don't need but one. SYKES (sighting) No... two.EXT. SHOOTING RANGE - FIRING LINE - NIGHTJetson, looking bizarre in his ear-protectors, is takingcareful aim with his .38 as Sykes walks up. Jetson slipsthe protectors down. SYKES Well, let's see what you got, Cochise. Gimme six, rapid fire.Jetson, a little nervous at this command performance,turns, sets, and FIRES at the silhouette target. It's alarge, sloppy grouping. SYKES (continuing) How long you been shooting? That's pitiful. Whattya gonna do if somebody draws down on you, wave your scores on the written exam at 'em?Sykes starts loading the thumb-sized bullets into theCasull. JETSON Why did you do it? SYKES Why'd I do what? JETSON Agree to work with me? You don't like me... you don't like any of us. You have nothing but contempt for us. And yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner... SYKES My partner is dead! Because one of you bastards killed him -- then disappeared into a rathole down in Slagtown, where he's home and dry, 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody says nothing...Sykes grabs a bullet-proof vest from nearby, slaps it ontothe hanging target form. He hits the switch, running thetarget down to the end of the lane. SYKES (continuing) But he didn't figure on you, George. You're going to get me through that wall of silence. You're going to make them talk to me. You're going to help me find that Slag son-of-a- bitch. Comprendo? And if Fedorchuk and the boys in the bullpen don't like it, screw them... and if the Captain doesn't like it, screw him... and if all the Slags down in Slagtown don't like it... well screw them too!Sykes raises the Casull, fires. KA-BOOM!!! The shellrockets clean through the bullet-proof vest on the targetform. The recoil slams Sykes back, jerks his arm up. KA-BOOM!!! again, and another hole is drilled through thevest. Other shooters look over. Sykes sets the gundown... sees his hand is bleeding. Jetson absorbs allthis, as we-- CUT TO:EXT. "X" BAR - NIGHTA violet neon "X" FILLS FRAME, flashing hypnotically.It's a bar catering to rough-trade Newcomer clientele.Several ALIEN MEN, brute laborer-types, lounge around outfront. They glare with antagonism as Sykes and Jetsonclimb out of their car. SYKES (to Jetson) Okay, just stay back and do what I do. Watch and learn, watch and learn...INT. "X" BAR - NIGHTSykes and Jetson walk into the almost total blackness ofthis all-Newcomer place.A few near-infrared indigo lamps dot the blackness. SYKES I can't see dick in here.We can dimly make out booths along one wall, some tables,and the bar. There are maybe twenty figures seated orstanding in the darkness. The room falls silent in a waveas Sykes' presence becomes noticed.Sykes saunters forward, commanding the space with hisunhurried movements. SYKES (calling into the dark silence) Which one'a you Slags is Porter? VOICE (from the back of the bar) Who wants to know?Sykes squints into the darkness, then-- SYKES (aside to Jetson) Who said that? JETSON (tilts his head to indicate) At the end of the bar.Sykes nods, starts in that direction. SYKES My name is Sykes. I'm-- ALIEN VOICE Ss'ai k'ss?The whole place roars with LAUGHTER. Too late Sykesremembers what his name sounds like to them. He continuesdown the bar and a figure in one of the booths sticks hisleg out and trips Sykes with his size 16 work boot. Sykesstumbles, then recovers and pivots on the offender. Hootsand derisive LAUGHTER. He sees only shadows. OFFENDER (merely a voice in the dark) Careful, ss'loka', you might hurt yourself.More laughter. Sykes gives the darkness where theoffender sits a hard stare, then turns and shoulders hisway to the end of the bar. Jetson follows. Sykes stopsbehind a big Newcomer in greasy work clothes.ANGLEThe punk Newcomer in the next seat is keeping his headdown, trying to be inconspicuous.He glances over at the two cops... his expression shiftingto recognition as he spots Jetson.BACK TO SCENESykes speaks to the Big Newcomer's back. SYKES You Porter?The Big Newcomer continues to sip his mug of sour milk.Doesn't turn. Sykes grabs him by the shoulder and turnshim around. The alien grabs Sykes' hand off, rising tohis full height. He and Sykes lock eyes. Meanwhile. thepunk Newcomer (PORTER) has started to slip away unnoticed.Jetson spots him, reaches out with one arm, and grabs himby the jacket. JETSON No, Matthew. I believe this is the one you want.He pulls Porter back into play. Now Jetson sees Porter'sface... and he, too, reacts with recognition.Sykes gives Jetson a sour look, releases the Big Newcomer,and turns his malice on the punk Newcomer. SYKES Your name wouldn't happen to be Porter, would it? JETSON Uh, Matthew... SYKES (over his shoulder to Jetson) Back off, George. JETSON But I-- (know this man). SYKES I'll handle it.Jetson backs off, letting him handle it. SYKES (to Porter) Jesus, are the questions too tough for you already? Let's try again-- (slowly) Is your name Porter? PORTER Ss'kya'ta'. SYKES (to Jetson) What's that? JETSON Screw you. SYKES (back to Porter) Screw me? That can't be right. PORTER Ss'kya ta' ss'loka'. Ss'trokya' ss'lato na'! JETSON (to Sykes, low) You don't want to know. SYKES Tell me. JETSON Your mother mates out of season. SYKES (to Porter) That's very colorful. But see -- now I've got a problem. I don't seem to be getting much cooperation from you, Porter. So I guess we're gonna have to take this little session down to my office, ya know?And instantly Sykes whips out this flashlight, snaps onthe beam, and arcs it into the faces of the aliens aroundhim. Jetson gets a blast of it, too. The aliens aremomentarily blinded.Sykes has Porter pinned to the bar, the flashlight in hisface, as he starts to handcuff him. But Porter gets ahand free and crushes the head of the flashlight.Darkness falls... along with Sykes' expression ofsatisfaction.Porter hurls Sykes back, slamming him into a table. Thecrowd HOOTS and CHEERS. Sykes finds his way to his feet. JETSON Matthew, you don't have to-- (do this). SYKES Stay back! I'm okay.He charges Porter, brandishing the flashlight like a club.The two of them battle, then Sykes sees his opportunityand brings his knee up viciously into the alien's groin.Porter doubles over in feigned agony, then slowly risesagain -- smiling. PORTER Don't they teach you anything about us in cop school, little ss'loka'?Porter grabs Sykes by the shirt front, is about to delivera crushing blow, when another arm cuts into FRAME, lockingwith Porter's, blocking the punch. It is Jetson. JETSON Enough. PORTER (eyeing Jetson) Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'. You're a cop. (with some contempt) It fits you.Jetson says something to him in the alien language.Porter gives him a hard stare, then moves toward the backexit. Sykes stumbles over to Jetson. SYKES You know that guy? JETSON (nods) From quarantine, when my people first arrived here. He and I were housed together. SYKES How could a straight-arrow like you ever pick a roommate like him? JETSON In the camps, we were lodged four to a room. The selection process was entirely random. We did not get to stay with our friends... or families...And he moves toward the back exit. Sykes watches him go. CUT TO:EXT. "X" BAR - NIGHTPorter leans against an alley wall. He speaks Englishlearned on the streets. JETSON You don't know what your father and these two men were arguing about? PORTER I told you -- I was in the back of the store. I just heard voices, muffled like. SYKES One of the two men was Hubley, right? What about the other one? Did you know him? PORTER Yeah... I seen him around. High- roller dude named Strader. Joshua Strader. Runs a club on the west side. Encounters. SYKES Yeah, I heard of it. PORTER That's all I know. You want anything more, you ask somebody else.He pushes away from the wall, heads for the door to thebar. JETSON I am sorry about your father.Porter throws him a look over his shoulder, thendisappears through the door. Sykes and Jetson start downthe alley. JETSON If I may make a suggestion... We have different weak spots than you do. Next time, a blow to the nerve plexus under the arm, here, will produce the effect I think you were looking for. SYKES Yeah, sure. I knew that... CUT TO:EXT. BURGER STAND - NIGHTThe wall-mounted menu is in English and the AlienLanguage. The SERVERS are teen aged humans and aliens.Sykes and Jetson stand at the counter awaiting theirorder. KID (serving them) Six forty-two.They both put money on the counter. The kid goes to putthe order together. Sykes looks at the alien characterson the menu. SYKES I don't think I could ever learn to read that shit. (beat) How long did it take you to learn English? JETSON Three months. (off Sykes' look) We learn quickly. We adapt. It is our strength... what we were bred for, to adapt to hostile environments.The Serving Kid puts their bags on the counter. JETSON (continuing) Thank you.They take the bags and walk off, digging the food out ofthe bags as they talk: SYKES My neighbor's kid has a Newcomer girl in his class. She's six years old and in seventh grade already...They climb into the car.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTJetson doesn't respond... some things are better leftunaddressed. Meanwhile, Sykes has unwrapped his food andrecoils in disgust. SYKES Oh, God. I think I got yours here...He holds up two strips of raw meat with patches of animalfur still on them. Jetson meanwhile is grimacing at thedripping cheeseburger he's just unwrapped. They quicklytrade. SYKES (continuing) Which one is that? Raw what? JETSON (eating a strip) This is mole. It's good. SYKES I'll bet. (winces, watching him chew) Would it really put you out if they tossed that on the grill for a minute or two? JETSON Our bodies do not assimilate the nutrients if the food has been cooked.Jetson looks over at him, smiling. SYKES Oh, that's real attractive. You got fur in your teeth, George. Come on, man, we're gonna be talking to people... jeez.Sykes looks at his burger, his appetite gone, shoves itback into the sack and tosses it into the back seat.INT./ EXT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTAs Sykes pulls onto the street. SYKES So what was that other word for Human... Slow ka? JETSON Ss'loka'. It means literally "small but intelligent creature". (Sykes looks over, doesn't know if he likes this) It loses much in the translation. SYKES And what was that one about my mother? That was a good one. JETSON Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'. SYKES Yeah, that's it. Say it slow.Jetson pronounces the words and Sykes follows alonghaltingly. After several tries, he can say it passablywell.INT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHTAn upscale, mostly yuppie-human dance club. Theantithesis of the "X" bar. A human HOSTESS in a slitdress has just finished seating Sykes and Jetson at atable. She moves off. The two cops look up at the stage.REVERSE ANGLErevealing the exotic alien dancer named CASSANDRA. Shemoves with a feline blend of strength and grace. Framingher face is a silvery nylon wig that she tosses like amane as she undulates to the MUSIC.Sykes watches with fascination. The MUSIC ends andCassandra steps down from the stage, to be replaced by ahuman DANCER as the next SONG cranks up. Sykes and Jetsonquickly intercept her as she heads backstage. JETSON You are Cassandra? CASSANDRA That's right. JETSON We are with the Police Department. This is Sergeant Sykes, and I am-- CASSANDRA (laughing) Ss'ai k'ss? Perfect. SYKES We're looking for your boss -- Strader.She eyes the two of them warily, then moves backstage,assuming they will follow.INT. BACKSTAGE - NIGHTShe moves along the narrow corridor. CASSANDRA He's not here. Why ask me? JETSON The young woman at the front said you might know where he is. CASSANDRA She did, did she? Well, she was wrong. Excuse me, I have to change. SYKES No problem.She moves through a door. Sykes follows closely so doesJetson.INT. ENCOUNTERS - DRESSING ROOM - NIGHTCassandra grabs some clothes and goes into a stall. SYKES Look, we're not here doing an interview for the school paper. This is a homicide investigation... and if you don't stop jerkin' us around, I'm ready to start playin' hardball.Jetson has waited politely half-in half-out of the room.Sykes rapidly motions to him to "go look around". Jetsonmimes back, "Huh?" CASSANDRA (slipping out of her dance costume) Oooh. Hardball. That sounds interesting. Are you going to strike me? You could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me... I've got my own ropes. SYKES (still miming to Jetson) Does that cost extra or you throw them in? CASSANDRA You've got me all wrong. I don't charge money for something that I myself find pleasurable...Finally Jetson gets what Sykes is trying to tell him. Hesays in the uncertain, stagy voice of a bad liar: JETSON I am going out to the car. I will meet you there.Sykes rolls his eyes as Jetson exits into the corridor.Cassandra emerges from the stall, wearing a long, stylish,low-cut dress. CASSANDRA Look, I don't know where Mr. Strader might be. He comes and he goes. SYKES (starting to feel a little uncomfortable) The girl out front mentioned Strader's assistant, somebody named Watson. Maybe he knows. CASSANDRA (tensing slightly) Todd? Todd doesn't know either.She is very close to Sykes now. She fingers the lapel ofhis jacket. CASSANDRA (continuing) I know... Why don't you hang around for a while, let me entertain you? It's Matt, right? Now tell me the truth, have you ever... made it... with one of us? SYKES Not unless I got real drunk and nobody told me about it later. CASSANDRA A virgin. I find that very arousing...INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHTMUSIC drifts up from downstairs. Jetson moves along thecorridor, scoping things out. He tries a door. Locked.Tries another one. Open. He eases it wider, then entersthe darkened office.INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHTJetson moves into the office. Looks around. Makes hisway to the cluttered desk top. Pushes things around...all the usual stuff. He starts to turn away, then his eyecatches something sticking out from behind a row of ledgerbooks. He reaches for it. A small dispenser -- of thekind we saw being filled at the refinery. Jetson studiesit, his suspicions growing. Opening it, he finds only thebarest trace of a viscous substance.He smells it... not enough to tell for certain what it is.But enough that he is very concerned about what it couldbe.INT. CASSANDRA'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHTCassandra is practically melting herself into Sykes now.She takes his hand and guides his fingertips over herfacial ridges. She shudders with pleasure. Sykes beginsto perspire. SYKES There's lots of things I haven't done, but his ain't high on the list. Don't take it personally. CASSANDRA I think you're just a little scared now, about what you might find once the lights go out. A little scared... and a lot curious. Maybe more than you want to admit. But doesn't that turn you on, that curiosity and fear, swirling together? (coos) Think of it as broadening your horizons. SYKES I like my horizons narrow. CASSANDRA (pressing herself into him) Your voice is saying no, but your body is saying yes.He quickly disengages from her. SYKES My voice, body, and everything else is saying I'll be back in two hours for Strader, and he better damn well be here.He shoves a business card at her, then retreats throughthe door.INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHTSykes closes the door and lets out his breath.INT. CASSANDRA'S DRESSING ROOM - NIGHTCassandra's expression instantly turns to worry and shequickly crosses to a phone and punches the intercombutton.INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHTJetson, looking through a desk drawer, hears the intercomBUZZ in the next room. Through the wall-- WATSON (O.S.) (tentatively) Yes...? CASSANDRA (O.S.) (over the intercom, breathless) Todd, it's me. The police were just here... looking for Strader. And asking about you.Jetson moves toward the door to the adjoining office,drawing his gun. The floor squeaks beneath his feet. Helooks down, then continues toward the door.INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR - NIGHTJetson eases open the door. It's the manager's privateoffice. Jetson sees the phone receiver resting on thedesk, the desk lamp on, a lit cigarette in an ashtray --but no one behind the desk. Jetson eases through the doorand---- a chair crashes down on him from behind the door!Jetson goes down, his gun skittering out of his hand.INT. PRIVATE OFFICE - NIGHTJetson and his assailant battle in the well-appointedoffice.INT. OFFICE - SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHTSykes hears the fight through the private office door.He throws the door open.INT. PRIVATE OFFICE - NIGHTSykes stands in the doorway, the Casull straight-armed atJetson's assailant. SYKES Freeze! Now!The assailant does. He looks at Sykes, scared, breathinghard. He's a Newcomer in a snappy Armani suit. This isTODD WATSON. Jetson, on the floor, starts to rise.Suddenly somebody flies at Sykes from the side, knockinghim sideways down the corridor. It's Cassandra. Watsonseizes the moment and shoves the off-balance Jetson intosome furniture and dives for the door.INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHTWatson runs down the corridor, ducking onto a fire escape.Meanwhile Sykes wrestles with Cassandra. She's as strongas he is, but he has the edge in experience.Jetson, disheveled, appears in the private office doorway,ready to chase Watson, but not knowing which way he went. SYKES (struggling with Cassandra) Fire escape! End of the hall!Jetson nods, takes off down the corridor. Sykes manges toget one handcuff on Cassandra's wrist, the other cuffaround a pipe sticking out of the wall. She SCREECHES athim in the alien language as he collects the Casull andcharges down the corridor.EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHTJetson pounds down the fire escape. Below him, he seesWatson reach the ground and take off running for theparking area.Jetson reaches the ground and gives chase.EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHTWatson zig-zags through the parked cars, Jetson cuttingdown other rows trying to make up the distance betweenthem.EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - OUTSIDE ENCOUNTERS - NIGHTSykes bangs down the fire escape, leaping the last fifteenfeet to the ground.EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHTWatson reaches his Alfa Romeo, yanks open the door, firesit up. Jetson slides up, ten feet behind the car, pullshis gun, aims.The white reverse-lights flash on. Jetson stands there,gun aimed -- but he hesitates to shoot. In that splitsecond hesitation, Watson floors it... Jetson jumping toavoid being hit.INT. ALFA ROMEO - NIGHTWatson throws the car into Drive, looks up, and sees Sykesstanding right in front of the car. He hits the gas.Sykes has no choice then to leap onto the hood of the car.Watson, with Sykes' face on the other side of the glass,panics and--EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHT-- plows the Alfa into some parked cars.Sykes is up in a flash -- yanks Watson out of the car.Watson rears back to swing at Sykes, when Sykes swings hisarms around in two wide arcs, his fists landing two directhits in the nerve centers under Watson's arms. Watsonfolds over with a "ooowwph" sound and drops to his knees. SYKES (breathing hard) I'll be damned. It worked. (sees Jetson run up) How'd you like that, huh? Whammo! Both barrels. Dropped him like a bag of cement.Jetson picks up Watson's fallen wallet. He looks at theI.D. SYKES Who is he? JETSON Todd Watson. The assistant manager.Watson is still doubled over, just trying to draw oneagonized breath. WATSON I don't believe this. Look at my suit. Look at what you made me do to my car. SYKES (laughing) Your girlfriend put up a better fight than you did, pal. JETSON We are looking for your employer, Joshua Strader. WATSON He's out of town. JETSON Why did you run? WATSON Because you two were chasing me. SYKES We were chasing you because you ran, you dumb son-of-a-bitch. JETSON When will Strader return? WATSON Who knows. He's the boss -- he doesn't have to check in with me. SYKES (wearily) Watson... this is my partner here's first coupla days, and he wants to make a good impression. Me, though, the way I feel -- this could be my last day, know what I mean? And I'm ready to rain on you like a cow pissin' on a flat rock. WATSON Look -- Mr. Strader hasn't been around for a coupla days. He didn't tell me where he was going or when he'd be back. I swear it. SYKES (to Jetson) What do you think? JETSON I believe he is probably lying. SYKES Through his ass. (to Watson) Next time you see him, tell him to call me... unless you want us to keep coming back on you like a bad case of herpes.Sykes shoves a business card in Watson's breast pocket.They walk away and Watson slumps against his car.ANGLE - MOVING WITH SYKES AND JETSONas they walk wearily to the slug-mobile. SYKES George, you can handle the women from now on, you mind? CUT TO:EXT. ENCOUNTERS PARKING LOT - NIGHTWatson is alone, surveying the damage to his Alfa, when hehears footsteps. He turns with a "What now?" expressionand -- a shotgun butt is slammed into his forehead. Hegoes down. Kipling stands over him, flanked by FOUR HUMANTHUGS. One of these is QUINT, senior human in Harcourt'semploy. QUINT (to other Thugs) Okay, scrape him up. CUT TO:EXT. ZUMA BEACH APPROACH _ NIGHTHarcourt's private limo glides down the narrow accessroad, passing a lookout car attended by two alien Thugs.The limo moves down to the beach, parking near an n.d.van.Harcourt exits the limo, walks onto the sand to the backof the van. Here he finds Kipling and Quint and the threehuman Thugs.They have Watson chained to the van's rear bumper, facingthe sea, and have been working him over with a tire iron.He's bruised and bloody, but still conscious. HARCOURT Any progress? QUINT My arm's gettin' tired and so far, zip. KIPLING He is ss'verdlatya ss'alo to Strader. QUINT What's that mean? KIPLING Duty-bonded. His allegiance to Strader is above pain or life. QUINT You tellin' me this guy would die before he'd screw his boss and work for us? Nobody's that dumb. KIPLING It is something you couldn't comprehend, Quint.Harcourt approaches Watson, kneels beside him, careful tokeep the knee of his designer pants out of the sand. HARCOURT I understand you have been resisting my offer Mr. Watson. Your sense of duty to Mr. Strader is noble, but -- no longer an issue, I'm afraid...Harcourt signals and the two Thugs drag an alien body fromthe back if the van: a middle-aged alien, Strader, shottwice through the front of his silk suit. Watson's eyeswiden in fear. HARCOURT (continuing) I will not make this offer again. I want you to work for me, to manage the nightclub as Strader's successor. If you do, you will know a wealth and comfort our people never dared imagine...Watson stares at Harcourt, scared but defiant. WATSON Sss'k'a ta'!Harcourt studies Watson a moment, perhaps even admiringhis resolve. Then-- HARCOURT It is such a pity to die for an outmoded value. (rising) Mr. Quint, I believe it's time for our friend's swimming lesson.Watson freaks out, howling and lashing against the chains. HARCOURT (to Watson) It's important to learn new skills. Essential to your growth as a person.Quint and the Thugs free Watson from the bumper. He bucksand lunges as they drag him toward the surf. Quintaddresses one of the Thugs, a new guy. QUINT You never seen this before, have you, Billy? oh, man, you ain't gonna believe it... seawater is like battery acid to these guys... I don't know what it is, some kinds chemical reaction. Whatta you think it is, Watson? Whoa, hold him. (a wave breaks outside, the foam rolls in) What I love about the surf is you can never tell how far up it's going to come until it... whoops, got a little wet there.The wave just sloshes over Watson's lower legs. Hescreams. Flailing, one of his hands dips below thesurface of the water. He howls and yanks out his hand.We see the alien hand dripping seawater... then a thousanddroplets of purple alien blood begin to bead all over thehand. The Thugs get Watson swinging. QUINT Last call, sucker. One... two... THREE!Watson is flung into the surf.ANGLEHarcourt and Kipling have walked down almost to thewaterline. We HEAR Watson's GURGLES and SCREAMS... thennothing. Kipling is very nervous this close to the water.Harcourt seems unperturbed. KIPLING When we picked him up, he was talking to those two cops -- the two who came to question you about Hubley. HARCOURT This is getting out of hand. I want you to deal with it. Immediately.A wave rushes up the sand. Kipling quickly steps back.Harcourt stands firm, staring it down, and the foam stopssix inches from his dress shoes. HARCOURT (continuing) We must learn to embrace the things we fear... and from that grow strong.A moment, then he turns and starts back toward the limo.He motions to Strader's body and the surf. The Thugs grabthe body and heave it into the waves. CUT TO:INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - NIGHTJetson is talking rapidly in the alien language on thekitchen wall phone. Sykes, foreground, takes the bottleof vodka from the refrigerator, throws some ice in aglass, pours himself a shot. As Jetson is talking, hespots the carton of milk that Sykes inadvertently left outof the refrigerator two nights ago.He sniffs it... his eyebrows do an involuntary movement.He finishes with his wife and hangs up. He watches Sykestake a long pull on the vodka. JETSON (holds up milk carton) Would you mind?Sykes shrugs, tosses him a glass. Jetson pours the semi-lumpy milk and takes a big swallow. Sykes grimaces.Then-- SYKES (indicates phone) So, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she? JETSON My wife? She worries about me.Sykes leans against the counter, getting comfortable, hisvoice more weary then bitter. SYKES Yeah... I know the routine. JETSON You are married? SYKES Was. Divorced. JETSON We mate for life. Divorce... is a strange concept to us. SYKES It's like having an eleventh finger removed. It hurts like hell, but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place.Jetson nods -- even though he doesn't really understandthis. They drink... Jetson gazes around. JETSON Your home is quite disordered. I thought perhaps you had been burglarized when I walked in. SYKES (growling) I appreciate your honesty, George.He smacks his glass against Jetson's. They drink.INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - LATERSykes has his wallet out... showing Jetson a dog-earedphoto. SYKES Ignore the bitch on the left, that's Edie. I call her Edi Amin... This is Kristin, my daughter. It's kinda an old picture... she's twenty now. Getting married, in fact... on Sunday.Jetson sitting across the table from Sykes, looks at theproffered photo. They're both a little drunk now. JETSON Human children can be very beautiful. (then) Getting married? Congratulations. You will be taking Sunday off, then... SYKES (uneasy) Maybe not... I don't know. I'm not sure I'm gonna go. (mumbles) She doesn't need her burn-out of a father there...Jetson looks at him. Sees something he never thoughtpossible in Sykes. Vulnerability. Trying to break themelancholy mood, Jetson reaches for his wallet. JETSON (upbeat) I must show you... (flips open wallet, shows four crisp photos of his wife) And this is Richard. My son. He's four years old. We named him after the former President, Richard Nixon.Sykes looks at all the photos sprawled out on the table...and has to laugh. He looks up at Jetson's sincere face.He may be starting to like this guy. SYKES You open to a piece of advice? Tell people you named him after Richard Burton, the actor. Just take my word for it.And he clacks his glass against Jetson's sitting on thetable, and--INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - LATERThey are quite a bit drunker. Jetson has doffed hisjacket and tie, leans in, listening intently to Sykes. SYKES ... and so, and so the doctor says, "If this is the thermometer, then where'd I leave the pen?" (laughs raucously, Jetson doesn't react) You're not... you don't think that's funny? George, work with me, I always get a laugh with that one. Look, if the doctor's got the thermometer in his hand, then where's his pen gotta be? JETSON (straight-faced) In the other man's rectum. SYKES (laughing) Sticking out of his ass... yeah! See, that's what makes it a joke. There's like a surprise, and your mind fills in the funny picture. Here's this guy with a pen stuck in his ass and he thinks it's a thermometer. (Jetson just blinks) Nada, huh?Jetson shrugs apologetically. Sykes pours them eachanother round. SYKES (continuing) Your health... JETSON Ta ss'trakyona'...They CLACK glasses, and--INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - LATER STILLThe party has moves into the living room floor, around thecoffee table. It's a quieter moment. JETSON There is so much our two peoples don't understand about each other. SYKES No shit, Holmes. You're only from another goddamn planet, for chrissakes. JETSON You humans are very curious to us. You invite us to live among you, in an atmosphere of equality we've never known before. You lay before us a beautiful green world, full of freedoms and opportunities... You give us ownership of our lives for the first time... and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves: to live by the rules... rules that aren't made to keep one people subordinate to another, but rules that exist to preserve equality. You aspire to very high ideals here.Sykes is watching Jetson, mesmerized. The guy's neversaid this much at one time before.If he wasn't drunk, Jetson would never let himself open upto a human like this. JETSON (continuing) I hope you can understand how special your world is... how unique a people you humans are. So it us all the more painful and confusing to us that so few of you seem capable of living up the the ideals you set for yourselves. SYKES Don't count on me, George. I never had any ideals.Jetson smiles a little. He knows that's bullshit. JETSON We don't understand the hatred, the contempt. But we must bear it... we must not react in anger... because our situation here is still fragile. The separationists would see us returned to the quarantine camps. The fundamentalists say we have no more human rights than dogs or cats. But the prejudice we face here is so insignificant compared to the pain that we've known before. And that is why we are so grateful.Sykes studies him a long time through heavy-lidded eyes.Finally-- SYKES Yeah, well... except I did hear you eat your dead.Jetson looks at him a long beat, then-- JETSON (deadpan) Only on Fridays.Sykes stares at him for about five seconds and thenexplodes with laughter. SYKES You son-of-a-bitch. You're okay.Jetson stands unsteadily, and announces: JETSON I'm going home. SYKES Yeah, go home. Get some sleep. You do sleep, don't you?Jetson, going out the front door, just waves over hisshoulder without turning around. He's gone. SYKES What a wildman...Sykes, stands there wobbling, then he collapses backwardonto the sofa, unconscious. And we MATCH DISSOLVE TO--INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - DAWNThe first hues of dawn stream through the window. Sykesremains passed out on the sofa where we left him.EXT. STREET - FRONT OF SYKES' BUILDING - DAWNThe slug-mobile parked at the curb. Silence, then theRUMBLE of a heavy truck... and a tow truck turns onto thisstreet at the corner.The tow truck glides to the curb in front of the slug-mobile. The driver stays inside as his passenger alightscarrying a tool kit and a paper bag. The human is Quint.Quint uses a slim-jim to open the slug-mobile door, thenslides behind the wheel.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DAWNQuint slides the contents from the paper bag. It is apacket of C-4 plastic explosives, with a primer cap, andtwo lead wires with their ends bared. Quint bends down,starts to work under the dash. As his head disappearsfrom FRAME, suddenly another head appears above theseats... George Jetson sitting up groggily in the backseat. A blanket slips off his head and shoulders. Hesits there blinking, rubbing his eyes, feeling lousy.Under the dash, Quint starts to whistle as he works.Mistake.Jetson, with a puzzled expression, leans forward and seesthis guy in the front seat. Before he can jump-start hisbrain, Quint sits up, sees him, and hammers him in theface with his fist. Jetson is knocked back, holding hisface. That was the last thing he needed.EXT. STREET - FRONT OF SYKES' BUILDING - DAWNMeanwhile Quint is shouting and bailing out of the car.He runs and leaps into the already moving tow truck.It is sliding around the corner out of sight just asJetson stumbles out of the car. He whips out his gun fromthe unfamiliar shoulder rig and it flies out of his hand.Jetson sags against the side of the car, mumbles an alienphrase, clearly the equivalent of "Fuck it...". CUT TO:INT. SYKES' APARTMENT - DAYSykes is in the fetal position on the couch where we lefthim. Someone is POUNDING on the door. He regainsconsciousness reluctantly. SYKES This better be good news or money.He shambles to the door and gets it open, admittingJetson. Jetson holds the C-4 charge in a handkerchiefwith one hand and gives it to Sykes. JETSON Hold this. (lurching to the sink) I feel very terrible.Sykes registers what he's holding. He moves to Jetson,who is running his head under the tap. SYKES Where'd you get this?!! JETSON A man, a human, was wiring it to your car. I didn't get a good look at him. (then, registering that it's day; panicked) I must call my wife... CUT TO:INT. PRECINCT FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - DAYJetson is starting to take on Sykes' looks, his clothingrumpled and a day old. Sykes has showered and changed sohe's not suffering as much by comparison. They approachSykes' desk. JETSON She's going to divorce me. SYKES George, she's not gonna divorce you. You mate for life, remember? JETSON She's very progressive. I'm certain she's considering it.ANGLE - A UNIFORMED SECRETARYdistributing phone slips nearby notices Sykes. SECRETARY You guys are looking for somebody named Strader, right? SYKES Yeah. SECRETARY Fedorchuk and Alterez just phoned in. They found him. (Sykes and Jetson react) Or at least what's left of him, washed up on the beach at Zuma.Sykes and Jetson react again. SECRETARY (continuing; handing over the message slip) They're still there if you wanna catch them.She moves off. SYKES Well, let's roll, George. JETSON (with a stricken expression) To the... to the beach? SYKES Come on, let's go, dude. Surf's up! CUT TO:EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - ZUMA BEACH - DUSKCRANE SHOT, nice and WIDE, showing the slug-mobile turningoff P.C.H. onto a gravel road which curves down the thebeach. The following is V.O. as the car approaches thewater. JETSON (V.O.) Stop the car. SYKES (V.O.) Why? JETSON (V.O.) Please, I must get out here. SYKES (V.O.) Come on, you won't have to get near the water. JETSON (V.O.) Stop the car!We see the car pull to a stop in a cloud of dust.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DUSK SYKES All right, okay. Keep your pantyhose on. Jeez, when in doubt, freak out, for chrissake.Sykes sees that his partner is covered with a sudden sheenof sweat, his hands shaking. Sykes softens. SYKES (continuing) It's all right, George. It's cool. Just wait here, all right? I'll be back in a coupla minutes. JETSON Thank you.He climbs out and Sykes drives down to the beach... towarda cluster of vehicles: a Sheriff's black-and-white, acoroner's wagon, and Fedorchuk's unmarked sedan.EXT. BEACH - DUSKA quick glimpse of a pile of dark yuck in the shape of aperson, black and skeletal beneath the remains of a silksuit. Wound around the corpse are streamers of kelp andother high tide detritus.ANGLE ON SYKES, FEDORCHUK, AND ALTEREZlooking down at the body. A CORONER'S TECHNICIAN is doinga closer inspection. FEDORCHUK Found his wallet in his jacket pocket. Joshua Strader, big as life. CORONER'S TECH Jesus, what a mess. It's gonna be a bear to make a positive determination, but it looks to me like he was shot before being tossed in the drink. At least twice-- (indicates where hearts would've been on the body) -- here, and here.Sykes absorbs this. He rises along with Fedorchuk andAlterez. SYKES How're you two doing on Tuggle's killer? ALTEREZ The store owner's son is in a street gang, so now we're thinking maybe it's gang related. SYKES Yeah, that's real good. You guys follow up on that for a coupla months.Fedorchuk looks up at Jetson standing on the bluff above. FEDORCHUK Look at your dildo partner. He's too scared to even come down to the sand. (calls up to Jetson, even though he's too far away to hear) You're not gonna get wet standing here, moron! SYKES I'd like to see you next to a sea of hydrochloric acid, Fedorchuk... see how much surfin' you'd do.Alterez shoots a polaroid of the body. Sykes grabs it asit emerges from the camera and walks back toward the car.Fedorchuk flips him the bird. As Sykes rounds the car, hesees that someone has drawn on the door in yellow liquidchalk marker a big star with "E.T. P.D." printed insideit. Sykes looks around. Fedorchuk and the others standtogether chuckling, conspicuously not looking in hisdirection. SYKES Cute.EXT. BEACH ROAD - DUSKSykes has stopped to pick Jetson up.He's wiping the "E.T. P.D." from the door as Jetsonapproaches from the edge of the bluff. Fedorchuk pulls upalongside in his n.d. sedan. He calls off to Jetson, whois still twenty yards away. FEDORCHUK Well, if it isn't Detective Jetson. Forget you hip waders, big guy? SYKES Lay off, asshole. FEDORCHUK I may be an asshole, but at least I'm a real detective, not some outer shit space thing.Sykes, his face neutral, which we should by now know to behighly dangerous, saunters to Fedorchuk's car and leansagainst it. SYKES Yeah? you're a real honest-to-god detective...?Sykes grabs the back of Fedorchuk's head and slams it intothe steering wheel, BAM-HONK!, and in doing so, has hurthis hand again (the hand he hit Jetson with).He shakes that hand while lunging in and grabbingFedorchuk's car keys with the other. SYKES (continuing) Then detect these!Fedorchuk, holding his bloody nose, watches as his carkeys sail out in an arc out over the bluff. Jetson, justclimbing into the slug-mobile, witnesses the last of thisscene without knowing how it began.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - DUSKSykes gets in, slams the door. His hand hurts as he grabsthe wheel. He holds the wheel gingerly as he slams thecar into gear and hurls gravel up the road toward P.C.H.Jetson looks over, curious. JETSON What was that about? SYKES (embarrassed that he defended Jetson) Nothing.On Jetson's confused expression, we-- CUT TO:EXT. BURGER STAND - NIGHTA different burger stand. Sykes and Jetson sit acrossfrom each other at one of the outdoor tables... Sykes withhis greasy burger, Jetson with his mole strips. This timethey have no trouble eating in front of each other as theytalk. SYKES ... So we've got three guys dead. All Newcomers, all killed the same way -- execution style. JETSON Warren Hubley was in middle management at a refinery... Joshua Strader operated a successful bar and nightclub... SYKES ... and Porter ran a piece of shit mom-and-pop mini-mart. (beat) So what the hell's the connection? CUT TO:INT. PATHOLOGY LAB OFFICE - NIGHTSykes and Jetson enter the cluttered lab office. Winteris here eating take-out chicken at his cluttered desk. SYKES You guys finished the postmortem on Strader yet? WINTER (his mouth full) You mean the Blob? They're finishing up now. JETSON Is Bentner here? I must speak with him. WINTER He went home early -- his kid was sick.Jetson frowns. WINTER (continuing) Yeah, but he left something for you.He wipes his greasy fingers on a napkin, then finds anenvelope on the desk and hands it to Jetson. Jetson tearsopen the sealed envelope. The message inside is writtenin the alien language. WINTER (continuing) Does this have something to do with the test he ran that he wouldn't tell me about?CLOSE ON - JETSONHis expression grows stricken as he reads the message.BACK TO SCENE SYKES (getting very curious and suspicious now) What kind of test? WINTER Looking for some foreign compound in the blood of that alien you dropped the other day. SYKES Did he find anything?Winter shrugs, indicates the message Jetson reads, as ifto say, "Maybe it says in there". SYKES (to Jetson) Well?Jetson refolds the paper and puts it in his pocket.He is clearly disturbed by what he has read. He looks atSykes a moment, then quickly breaks eye contact. JETSON It is nothing.Jetson quickly moves off. Sykes hurries off after him.INT. HALLWAY - NIGHTSykes hurries to catch up with the fast walking Jetson.They eventually reach the elevators and Jetson jabs thebutton during: SYKES What's this nothing shit? It wasn't nothing yesterday when you asked Bentner to run that test and he looked like he was about to shit peach pits, and it's not nothing now. Don't lie to me, George, you're bad at it. JETSON (distant, closed) You must leave me alone on this.The elevator arrives, he steps in. Sykes follows.INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHTThey enter the empty elevator. Jetson presses the buttonto descend. SYKES No, see, I don't leave you alone... I'm your partner. I don't work that way... Tug didn't work that way.Jetson remains steadfast. Sykes, about to explode, slamshis palm against the red Emergency Stop button and theelevator lurches to a halt between floors. SYKES (continuing) No secrets, goddammit! You don't hold back from me. Whatever is going on, you're gonna tell me now! JETSON (agonizing) No. I cannot involve you. This is not your concern. SYKES The hell it isn't, when somebody wires up enough C-4 explosive to my car to turn me into pink mist! (beat) That Slag was on something, and not sour milk, either? Am I right? (he has backed Jetson to the wall by sheer force of will) TELL ME! What is it? JETSON (finally) ... It is called ss'jabroka'. To us it is a potent narcotic. SYKES How potent? JETSON Like your cocaine, I suppose. The "high" lasts several hours. We would receive small amounts of it... as a reward for our labor. SYKES We? You've taken it? JETSON We all did. SYKES Where did he get it? Was there any of it on the ship? JETSON No... I am sure not. That is why I am so concerned... someone must now be producing it here. (emphatically) But none of my people know how to make it. The process was carefully guarded. SYKES (as the enormity sinks in) Jesus, this is major. (then) Why didn't you tell me sooner? Why'd you hold out on me? JETSON Your people don't know about this part of out past. And they can't know -- It would threaten our entire existence here.The voltage runs out of Sykes. He seems to understandJetson's dilemma. SYKES George... look me in the eye... George, you don't ever lie to me again. JETSON I must trust you, Matthew. I cannot stop this without you.Sykes stare at Jetson... absorbing the enormity of theearth-shattering secret this alien has asked him to keep. CUT TO:EXT. COUNTY MORGUE - NIGHTSykes and Jetson move quickly to the slug-mobile. Sykesreaches for the driver's door handle with his punchinghand. He winces in pain... the son-of-a-bitch stillhurts. He looks across at Jetson opening the passengerdoor. SYKES George? How about you drive...Jetson looks over at him... gently reacting to this voteof confidence. They walk quickly around to the oppositedoors, climb in.INT. CORRIDOR - BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHTSykes and Jetson move down this government-buildingcorridor. SYKES There's gotta be some other connection.They enter a door marked BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS.INT. BUREAU OF NEWCOMER AFFAIRS - NIGHTHIGH SHOT showing the maze of partitioned cubicles fillingthis huge room. It's all but deserted. Sykes and Jetsonare off to one side with a heavyset woman (human) COMPUTEROPERATOR, who they're shanghaied into helping them afterhours.CLOSER - AT COMPUTER OPERATOR'S DESKShe sits at her computer terminal. Sykes and Jetson standbehind her as she types in commands and information.She types: Hubley, Warren. The computer screen flashespast various information, then settles on a screen full ofinformation of HUBLEY, WARREN. OPERATOR Here's Hubley. (scanning it) Left Quarantine on November thirtieth, relocated first to Riverside, then moved to Los Angeles early in February the following year. Field of expertise: chemical manufacturing. Looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the refinery. SYKES Try Joshua Strader, will ya, darlin'? OPERATOR For you, anything.The Operator punches up STRADER, JOSHUA. The screen fillswith information. OPERATOR (continuing, reading from screen) Released on November twenty-ninth. Came immediately to L.A. Ten weeks after arriving he took over the abandoned club which is now Encounters. JETSON (to Operator) Now the store owner, please. Cecil Porter.She types it in. OPERATOR Released December one. He and his wife moved first to Modesto, then Coalinga, California -- wherever that is -- settled in L.A. in April. Field of expertise: organic chemical engineering. He and his wife have one child, a son. SYKES Yeah -- we met him. Wonderful boy... close personal friend of George's here. OPERATOR I'm sorry, Matt. Nothing here seems to be matching up...But Sykes wasn't listening. He's starting off... an ideaforming. He stands there a moment, considering it, hisface looking like he's chewing something sour. It's sooff-the-wall it takes a moment for him to assimilate it.Then-- SYKES Holy shit... (to Jetson) Look what we're staring at: three Newcomers with nothing in common, right? What if it's just one other guy who killed these three? (Jetson looks at him blankly) Three and one make four. Four Newcomers... of totally different backgrounds... (Jetson still doesn't get it) You and the store owner's son -- that punker!Suddenly the realization hits Jetson, too. He looks atSykes. JETSON ... Quarantine.Sykes spins to the Operator, excited. SYKES Can you dig up their Quarantine records in this thing? OPERATOR Sure. Just a minute.She moves up a screen to the top of Porter's information. OPERATOR (to herself) Porter was in Lodge seven seven two.She rapidly types in additional information. The screenshifts as she jumps files. Finally she gets a line thatreads: ENTER LODGE NUMBER: She types: 7-7-2.Sykes and Jetson lean in as the screen goes blank... theninformation flashes past as the computer searches... then,finally: Occupants, Quarantine Lodge 772: HUBLEY,WARREN......... STRADER, JOSHUA.........Sykes and Jetson react -- their hunch is coming true.On the computer screen: .........PORTER, CECIL.........Sykes and Jetson, their faces bathed in the green kick ofthe screen, stare without blinking, waiting for that forthname.On the computer screen: .........HARCOURT, WILLIAM.CLOSE ON - SYKES AND JETSONreacting to the name. CUT TO:EXT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHTCLOSE on a limousine door as it opens and a tall figurerises from the back seat. We TILT UP to reveal WilliamHarcourt.We MOVE with him as he walks to the n.d. van (from thebeach scene) parked in front of the limousine. Kipling isjust sliding out of the passenger side of the cab. Quintexits the driver door. Kipling slides open the van's sidepanel, reaches in for---- a large black suitcase. He slides it out. Harcourtnods. He and Kipling start into the club, followed byQuint.INT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHTThe club is deserted tonight as Harcourt and entouragemove toward the back.EXT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHTHarcourt and the others move up the stairs to the secondfloor. Cassandra, wearing a slinky dress, is at the topof the stairs waiting for them. She's very uncomfortabledealing with Harcourt. Kipling and Quint continue ontoward the office door. Harcourt pauses with Cassandra.He touches her neckline of her dress, letting his fingerslinger against her flesh. HARCOURT Quite lovely... (best) What is your name again? CASSANDRA (flinching involuntarily at his touch) Cassandra. HARCOURT (a chilling smile) I will have to remember that...He continues down toward the office door. Cassandrawatches him go. CUT TO:INT. SLUG-MOBILE - MOVING - NIGHT JETSON They had months in quarantine to develop the plan. Porter, with his chemistry background, must have somehow come up with the formula for the drug. Hubley manufactured it -- at the refinery. Strader, through the nightclub, established a distribution network. And Harcourt-- SYKES Harcourt was the brain who brought it all together.EXT. REFINERY - ESTABLISHING SHOT - NIGHTEXT. REFINERY - NIGHTThe slug-mobile skids to a stop at the loading dockentrance. Sykes and Jetson climb out. They hop up ontothe loading platform and move purposefully into the well-lit interior through the open door.INT. REFINERY - NIGHTIt is Saturday night, the plant is barely operational --only a few WORKERS around. Sykes and Jetson movepurposefully toward the back. SYKES Okay, George -- we gotta play this real smart. JETSON If the drug is here, we must destroy it. SYKES No, George -- you're missing the point. The drug is evidence. We need to have the evidence, ya know?Jetson doesn't reply -- he's focused beyond what Sykes issaying. Sykes spots O'Neal up ahead by the refrigerationdoor to the METHANE SECTION. SYKES (continuing) That's the guy...O'Neal recognizes Sykes and doesn't wait around for thebig Newcomer bearing down on him. He dodges quicklythrough the refrigeration door and swings it closed.Jetson's hand hits the door an instant later, before it islatched, and he pushes it open despite O'Neal's bodyweight against the other side.INT. METHANE ROOM - NIGHTJetson grabs O'Neal by the collar and drags him deeperinto the deserted room. O'NEAL Hey, what are you, crazy?! You can't come in here like this! Hey!Sykes reaches the doorway, stops and stares. SYKES So much for playing it smart...O'Neal's feet are barely touching the ground as Jetsonmoves along the row of drug-manufacturing equipment.Finally he reaches a stainless steel tub... he runs a longfinger along the inside, comes up with some residue of thedrug. It glistens blue on his finger. It holds himmesmerized for several moments... his expression that of aformer junkie beholding the stuff he used to covet so. SYKES (tentatively stepping closer) Is that it...?A beat, than Jetson explodes -- he sweeps a rack ofequipment off the worktable, savagely wipes the drug fromhis hand onto O'Neal's shirt-front as he slams and pinsthe bug-eyed O'Neal to the wall. SYKES Uh, George... JETSON (in O'Neal's face) Where is the drug? Where have they taken it? O'NEAL (choking) What drug? This is an oil refinery, you... JETSON (pushing harder) WHERE?! O'NEAL (unable to breathe) You... can't do... this! SYKES George, uh... you're gonna break his little chest bones... JETSON Stay out of this, Matthew. (to O'Neal) Tell me where the drug has been taken or I will crush your lungs against this wall.O'Neal is experiencing real fear now. Sykes has decidedto back Jetson up, for better or worse. He takes the"good cop" role. SYKES Don't piss him off, O'Neal. When he gets like this, I can't control him. I've seen this before. He got like this once -- I saw him jerk a guy's spine out and show it to him. Nothing I could do. I hadda go throw up. O'NEAL (at length, with great effort) ... They took the stuff out, all of it -- this afternoon. JETSON How much? O'NEAL About fifty kilos... of concentrate... and some street grade... in tubes.Jetson reacts to this... then increases the pressure.O'Neal is really in bad trouble now. Even Sykes takes ahalf-step forward -- thinking Jetson might actually crushthis man. JETSON Where have they taken it? O'NEAL Encount... Encounters Club.Finally, Jetson eases off. O'Neal slumps to the floor,gasping for air. CUT TO:EXT. REFINERY - NIGHTThis time Jetson is the Juggernaut... his expression setand hard... as he strides to the car. Sykes practicallyhas to run to keep up. SYKES George, c'mon -- lighten up. It's a beauty of a case. Don't sweat it -- we got him by the short hairs. He ain't gonna make any more of the shit. JETSON The fifty kilos, Matthew. I have to find it. I can't let it get out on the street. SYKES Why? What's the big goddamn deal?Jetson has reached the driver's door of the slug-mobile,yanks it open. SYKES (continuing; as Jetson starts the car You destroy that drug, you destroy the case. Don't blow the whole thing now by not following procedure. JETSON (through the open driver's window) Fuck procedure.And to Sykes' shock, he throws the car in gear and peelsout. SYKES Hey!!Jetson accelerates toward the security gate. The guard inthe shack starts yelling and runs out as the slug-mobilebashes through the barricade bar. SYKES GEORGE! GODDAMMIT!!Sykes stands there like a moron -- with no partner, nocar. A pickup truck carrying a Worker just getting offhis shift starts ambling past. Sykes runs in front of it,waving his badge. The pickup skids to a stop. SYKES Police. Get out. I need this thing. Out, now!The poor guy bails out and Sykes jumps in, jamming it intogear. The truck has seen better days... it doesn't havemuch power to give as Sykes floors it toward the exit. CUT TO:INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTAs Jetson races along the freeway, whipping past othertraffic. He takes a hand off the wheel, reaches over andpops open the glovebox. He shoves some maps and garbageaside, reaches deeper inside for something -- we don't seewhat. CUT TO:INT. ENCOUNTERS - NIGHTCassandra walks a trio of well-dressed DRUG DEALERS (twoalien, one human) through the deserted club.INT. SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR - NIGHTShe leads them to the office door, opens it, then letsthem enter ahead of her. A couple of them smile at herlasciviously as they brush past. She is about to enterherself when an alien hand flashes in behind her, coveringher mouth, pulling her backward away from the door.It is Jetson. He had been hiding behind some cratesstacked here in the corridor. He pins Cassandrapowerfully to the wall, keeping one hand over her mouth.She struggles until she sees who it is. JETSON I am here to take Harcourt. Where is he?She hesitates, then decides to cooperate, indicates with anod toward the office door. CASSANDRA In there. JETSON (pulling his gun) Show me.INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHTThe large suitcase rests on the expansive conferencetable. A manicured alien hand reaches in and slowly opensit. Inside are fifty one-kilo glass tubes full of theviscous blue drug. Also several of the small, individualdispensers. It is Harcourt, standing behind the table ina pool of light, who has opened the suitcase. He isflanked by Kipling... with Quint elsewhere in the room.The room is lit by track light, creating pools of lightand dark.The two alien Dealers' eyes widen at the sight of thedrug. The human dealer doesn't know what it is. HARCOURT (to alien dealers) It's been a long time, hasn't it, gentlemen? HUMAN DEALER What is it? HARCOURT A sweet indulgence from out past... resurrected for our future.Harcourt sees the hungering expressions on the alienDealers' faces... smiles knowingly. He slides one of thedispensers from the suitcase. HARCOURT (continuing; to alien dealers) Please feel free to sample the quality. The experience will be everything you remember it to be...One of the alien Dealers takes the dispenser, brings it tohis tongue. The other alien dealer turns to Harcourt-- ALIEN DEALER Where'd you get it? HARCOURT I arranged to spend some time with three very resourceful men. With a certain amount of coaxing, one of them was able to reconstitute the formula for me. (beat) They worked very well together. Unfortunately, they are no longer with us... but I was fortunate enough to reap the benefit of their endeavor.He indicates the drug. The first alien Dealer swaysgently, enjoying the sensation. The second alien Dealertakes his hit... shudders as the first rush washes overhim. The human Dealer is no fool... he grabs thedispenser. HUMAN DEALER Let me try some. (he does, immediately spits it out) Jesus! Tastes like detergent! HARCOURT And that's all the effect it will have on you. But when my fellow Newcomers learn they can obtain it here, they will work very hard... to make as much money as they can... to give it to me.Suddenly, a voice from the shadows near the open door tothe other office: VOICE You haven't told him all of it.Harcourt and the others react. Quint leaps to his feet,caught off guard. Kipling reaches for his shoulderholster. A silhouette beside the open door to the outeroffice nudges Cassandra into the light of the room, thensteps out himself. It is Jetson.Quint gets his gun out, is about to aim... when his eyesgo wide at the sight of something Jetson holds.It is the plastic explosive charge that Quint was wiringto the slug-mobile. The wires are connected and Jetson'sfinger squeezes down hard on the detonation push-switch. QUINT He's got the C-4 charge!Jetson moves forward slowly, holding the bomb in front ofhim. He is sweating rivers. The others quickly join him.He nudges Cassandra ahead of himself, keeping her where hecan see her. QUINT (continuing) Just take it real casual, buddy. Keep your finger on that button and don't do nothing squirrely. HARCOURT If you release that button, you not only kill us, but yourself. JETSON To get you and that-- (indicates drug in suitcase) -- I would do it.He says it with such straightforward eye contact, thatHarcourt (and we) know he isn't bluffing. JETSON Everyone up against that wall. Very slowly. (to Harcourt) Except you.Harcourt remains behind the desk. Cassandra stays whereshe is, near Jetson. The others move to the wall.Kipling in particular is going nuts, letting this happen.Jetson takes the "sample" dispenser from the table, tossesit into the suitcase, then closes the lid and locks it.All the while keeping his eye on Harcourt and the others. HARCOURT One small matter seems to have escaped your attention. That-- (indicates suitcase) -- is not on any books as a controlled substance. Legally it might as well be fifty kilos of... grape jelly. JETSON The charge is murder... and conspiracy to commit murder. Hubley, Porter, Strader... probably others.There's a flicker of concern behind Harcourt's icy blueeyes.Cassandra stares at Harcourt. CASSANDRA You... you killed Strader?Cassandra runs to Harcourt grabbing his jacket. CASSANDRA Where's Todd?! Did you do something to Todd?!Harcourt looks down at her, totally uninvolved. HARCOURT Todd? Who is Todd. (then remembers; smiles) Ah, poor Mr. Watson.Cassandra's eyes go wide as the horror of what he saidsinks in. Jetson nudges Harcourt with the suitcase. Theystart out. Cassandra, wild with rage, grabs Quint's .357and with a KEENING WAIL, brings it up toward Harcourt'sface. JETSON NOOO!Jetson drops the suitcase as he lunges for the gun. Hemanages to knock it away just as she fires -- the bulletgoing into the wall behind Harcourt. Striking like amongoose, Kipling leaps forward, grabbing the two leadwires on the bomb in Jetson's hand and jerking them apart.Jetson reacts an instant late... releasing the switch...and nothing happens. KIPLING I got it!Kipling tackles Jetson and they both go crashing to thefloor. Quint grabs the gun from Cassandra and hammers herwith it, hard. She drops to her knees and Quint viciouslyhits her again.Meanwhile, Jetson struggles to regain his feet. Kiplingrears back and delivers a crushing blow under Jetson's arm-- to the nerve plexus. Jetson instantly folds overforward and Kipling savagely brings up his knee intoJetson's face, flipping him back. Kipling slams him intothe wall face-first, pinning him there. HARCOURT Kill them both. KIPLING Here? HARCOURT (raging) Do it!Quint brings the gun up, places the muzzle against thebase of Cassandra's skull, starts to squeeze the trigger.There's a loud BLAM! and Cassandra flinches... then looksup.Quint is blown backward away from her.Sykes stand in the doorway from the private office, theCasull smoking in his hand.Quint hits the wall behind him -- only it's not a solidwall, but the huge window overlooking the club. Hecrashes through it.ANGLE FROM DANCE FLOORas the wall of mirror explodes IN SLOW MOTION and Quintcartwheels to the floor in a shower of diamonds.ANGLE - IN THE OFFICEKipling shoves Jetson aside, draws his gun and fires atSykes.Sykes dodges into the private office for cover.The three Dealers dive behind any available furniture.Harcourt snatches up the suitcase and rushes to the doorleading into the adjoining outer office.Sykes swings around the edge of the private office door,straight-arms the Casull into the office and fires.Kipling fires back, crossing toward the outer office door,covering Harcourt's back. Sykes ducks back down.An unsteady Jetson rises from the floor, sees Harcourt andKipling escaping, and takes off after them.Sykes straight-arms the gun into the room again... seesJetson disappearing through the adjoining office door. Hemoves into the room as the three drug Dealers, arms up insurrender, rise from behind the furniture. ALIEN DEALER Don't shoot, man -- we're unarmed -- look!Sykes looks at these harmless wimps... then at Cassandra. SYKES You okay? CASSANDRA (dazed, but all right) Yeah...And he charges out the adjoining office door.EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - ENCOUNTERS - NIGHTHarcourt and Kipling bang down the metal stairs. Jetsonis ten feet above them. Sykes flies out onto the fireescape, a few steps behind Jetson. A POLICE CAR SIREN isHEARD arriving O.S.EXT. ALLEY - BEHIND ENCOUNTER - NIGHTTwo UNIFORMED OFFICERS bound from their unit and run intothe back entrance of the club, leaving the unit running.Two seconds later, Harcourt and Kipling leap down from thefire escape, find themselves near the unit. HARCOURT Here!He throws the suitcase into the passenger side door, jumpsin. Kipling dives in behind the wheel, slams it into gearand floors it.Jetson and Sykes hit the ground just as the unit peelsout. Sykes raises the Casull and fires at the fleeingcar. One slug shatters a tail light, others pepper therear of the trunk, but the car keeps going. JETSON This way!He indicates the slug-mobile parked nearby. They race toit, jump in... Sykes driving. He burns rubber as he pullsout.A second arriving police unit pulls into the alley,heading straight for the slug-mobile. Sykes has to gratebetween the alley wall and the arriving police unit to getpast.EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHTHarcourt and Kipling in the first police unit comethundering down the street zig-zagging through traffic.The slug-mobile is three-quarters of a block behind them.INSIDE THE BLACK-AND-WHITEHarcourt begins fumbling with the dash switches...eventually hitting the right ones and the roof lights andSIREN blast on.EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHTIt looks like a backwards chase, the slug-mobile chasingthe howling police car through traffic.Jetson alertly eyes the approaching traffic -- calls itout to Sykes the way he was trained at the academy. JETSON Slow traffic on your right... you're clear at the left rear... (Sykes changes lanes) Careful, red light ahead...With Jetson's help, Sykes is able to dice through thecross-traffic without incident.EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHTThe traffic ahead of the police car peels off in responseto the approaching lights and SIREN. Kipling dodgesaround the stopped traffic easily.The same traffic that has pulled over for the police carnow starts easing back onto the street, cutting off theslug-mobile.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTSykes' expression tells us he's slipped into the samejuggernaut mode we saw during the foot chase in the alley. JETSON Yellow light ahead turning red...But Sykes doesn't slow -- instead he floors it. JETSON (continuing; wide- eyed) Red light! Red light!EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHTSykes peels around the merging traffic, cuts across theintersection, and continues the chase. On the wrong sideof the road, head-on into traffic.Headlights peel off in front of them as they charge alongthe wrong side. They eventually catch up to the policeunit, racing parallel to it, but with the divider betweenthem.Sykes keeps one hand on the wheel and draws the Casullwith the other. He brings it up and around right in frontof Jetson's nose, pointing it through the passenger windowat Kipling.At that moment, Kipling glances over and reacts to thebore of this huge gun staring him in the kisser.Jetson reacts to the gun in his face... then reacts tosomething else he sees beyond it. JETSON Green light, Matthew. (Sykes doesn't respond) Green light!Now Sykes looks. The light at the intersection has justturned green -- and the rows of the cars that were waitingstart coming. It's a wall of headlights coming right forthe slug-mobile. SYKES Shit! JETSON Ss-ai!EXT. WEST SIDE STREET - NIGHTSykes locks up the brakes. Kipling veers around a coupleof cars and speeds away.Because of the other traffic, Sykes has only one course ofaction. He skids a left onto a side street.EXT. SIDE STREET - NIGHTSykes burns rubber down this quieter street, squeals aright onto another street that parallels the street thepolice unit is on. At the first street available, he cutsback in behind the police unit.EXT. FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHTSykes' car tears along below the overpass -- with thepolice unit directly above them! An on-ramp approachesfor the slug-mobile and Sykes floors it.INT. BLACK-AND-WHITE - NIGHTHarcourt turns in his seat just in time to see the slug-mobile airborne as it flies from the on-ramp, landing afew feet behind the black-and-white's bumper.EXT. FIRST STREET OVERPASS - NIGHTWith the slug-mobile now, the police unit hangs a right,cuts through a parking lot, and bounces onto--EXT. SECOND STREET AND TUNNEL - NIGHTThe police unit hangs a u-turn into the Second Streettunnel. It clips one of the civilian cars, causing apile-up of traffic behind the police unit.The slug-mobile skids to a stop, blocked by the clog oftraffic in the tunnel. Sykes is out of the drivers doorin a flash, stand on the door frame, and yells-- SYKES Move your goddamned cars!People climb out of their cars dazed and bewildered --ignoring Sykes. Sykes slides behind the wheel, bangs hisbumper into the car in front of him, and pushes the carfar enough forward to get around. He speeds off.INT./ EXT. BLACK-AND-WHITE - FREEWAY - NIGHTKipling rockets up a freeway on-ramp. Harcourt smileswith satisfaction -- there's no sign of the slug-mobilebehind them. Kipling eases off, blends into the flow oftraffic.EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHTSykes slaloms the slug-mobile through the civiliantraffic like Mario Andretti lapping the pack atIndianapolis.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTJetson spots the police unit in the right hand lane ahead. JETSON There!Sykes sees it. Thinking fast, he eases off, using anothercar as a blind. He waits until the police unit isparallel to an off-ramp, then guns ahead and swings right,directly for the police unit.Kipling looks over, reacts, just as the slug-mobilebroadsides the police unit. Sykes forces the police unitup the off-ramp.EXT. INTERSECTION - NIGHTDoor handle to door handle, the two cars slue to theright. The police unit breaks out in front, but Sykesstays right on its ass. They charge up onto--EXT. VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - NIGHTThe police unit and slug-mobile -- bumper to bumper at 80MPH.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTAs the cars scream along, Jetson cranes out the sidewindow, looking in distress at the inky seawater flashingpast below.EXT. VINCENT THOMAS BRIDGE - NIGHTThey reach the far end of the bridge and skid wide onto--EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHTA clear two lane straightaway near the ocean. Sykespushes the slug-mobile to its limits, pulls alongside thepolice unit. The two cars trade blows at 90+ MPH.Kipling manages to send Sykes onto the dirt shoulder,slowing him down.INT. BLACK-AND-WHITE - NIGHTKipling watches the slug-mobile in the rearview mirror,then looks back out the front to see the end of the roadcoming up fast! Harcourt bellows to Kipling, who slams onthe brakes.EXT. END OF BOULEVARD - NIGHTThe police unit skids to a stop before hitting a chainlink fence where the road ends. An abandoned drawbridgeand the ocean are on the other side of the fence.With nowhere else to go, Harcourt yells something atKipling and Kipling floors it back the way they came.EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHTThe two cars are racing for a full head-on. At the lastinstant, Sykes wrenches the wheel, throws the slug-mobilesideways, passenger side first. The police unit smashesinto the rear door and fender of the slug-mobile, bothcars skidding madly to a stop. A fire ignites under thehood of the police unit.INT. SLUG-MOBILE - NIGHTSykes sits stunned behind the wheel. Disoriented butconscious, he raises his head, looks over... sees Jetsonout cold, his forehead gashed and bleeding. Then he looksover and sees the fire growing under the police unit'shood which is crunched up against the rear of the slug-mobile -- near the gas tank.EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHTSykes slides out of the driver's door, stumbles toJetson's door, wrenches it open, and drags the hugeunconscious alien away from the cars.He's still dragging Jetson away when he spots Harcourtpulling himself through the smashed police unit window.Bruised and bleeding, Harcourt reaches in for thesuitcase, then starts to run with it.With Jetson a safe distance away from the cars, Sykesclambers to his feet, draws the Casull, and starts offafter Harcourt.Harcourt reaches the chain link fence leading to theclosed drawbridge. He heaves the suitcase over, thenstarts to climb.Sykes lumbers past the burning police unit. Kipling isstill behind the wheel, his head slumped forward. Sykesis just past the cars when they explode -- sending hoodsand door panels and glass flying in all directions.Harcourt, on the other side of the fence, grabs thesuitcase and limps off into the shadowy world of theabandoned drawbridge.Sykes reaches the fence. Instead of climbing, he simplyblows the lock to hell with the Casull, and kicks open thegate.EXT. ABANDONED DRAWBRIDGE - NIGHTThe end of the bridge is in the "up" position... a hugeasphalt slab stabbing up into the night sky. Harcourtruns along the pools of light and dark at the edge of thebridge, the black seawater drifting past beside him. Hisfoot slips once and he almost goes over the side.Sykes -- backlit by the burning cars, the big Casull aprominent part of the silhouette -- just keeps coming.Harcourt reaches the shadows at the end of the bridge --and has nowhere to go. He is backed into a corner, withseawater on two side of him. Harcourt pivots frantically,sees Sykes coming this way. Harcourt is a trapped animal.His chest heaves in panic. Then his gaze falls on thesuitcase behind him... and slowly... finally... a look ofresolve comes into his eye.ON SYKESHe eases cautiously toward the shadows where he knowsHarcourt is. There's some movement among the shadows, andSykes straight-arms the Casull, his finger white againstthe trigger.Perspiration drips into Sykes' eye, but he doesn't blink.A long moment then--ANGLE - THE SHADOWSHarcourt emerges from the darkness. His face is composed,the superior glint is back in his eye. His arms are heldaway from his sides at 30 degree angles, clearly insurrender.Sykes cat-steps forward slowly. Harcourt stares at Sykes'eyes, and the desire there that Harcourt will give him anexcuse. Harcourt simply... smiles. SYKES Move a finger, Harcourt, and you're history... HARCOURT No, Sergeant -- not history... (beat) Eternity...And now Sykes sees it -- Harcourt has been holding one ofthe one-kilo glass cylinders of the drug concealed behindhis arm. He brings it up over his head, grins at Sykes,then tilts back his head and cracks the cylinder open.The blue gel pours into his mouth and down his chin. Hismouth fills.He looks back at Sykes, making eye contact... his eyesmad, defiant. And -- he swallows. Long hold -- then thewallop of the overdose hits him... his face contorts inagony as he begins to convulse. Sykes, wide-eyed, lowersthe Casull and watches as Harcourt drops to the ground andgoes into a massive violent seizure. His limbs hammeragainst the deck... his back arches fiercely. It is abrutal, agonizing ten seconds. Then, finally, his bodybecomes still.Sykes, stunned at what he's just witnessed slowly goes tohim and takes his pulse the way he saw Jetson do it.HIGH ANGLE SHOT - THE ENTIRE AREASykes stands. He notices the suitcase nearby, latches it,and hefts it. He carries it with him back toward theinferno of the wrecked cars, the Casull hanging heavy andcold in his hand.ANGLE FOLLOWING SYKESHe approaches the burning cars, heading for Jetson. As hepasses the burning cars, we have a half-second to registerthat the driver's door of the police unit is now openbefore---- a dark figure hurtles at Sykes' back from O.S.! Sykesis thrown forward. The suitcase crashes to the ground,and the Casull goes skittering off. Sykes looks up -- tobe met by the singed and bleeding nightmare visage ofKipling! Kipling reaches down for the suitcase then Sykeshears it -- the telltale CLINKING SOUND. He looks -- andsees the exotic silver bracelet on Kipling's wrist. Itconnects for him; this is the bandana alien -- the one whokilled Bill Tuggle!Kipling brings the suitcase above his head. He is a half-second from hurling it down on Sykes' skull when -- a GUNROARS. Kipling is thrown back by the chest wound. Sykeslooks.ANGLEJetson, half sitting up, holds the smoking Casull.Kipling recovers enough to come at Sykes again with thesuitcase again. Jetson, shaking but determined, firesagain, and again, and again.Kipling is driven backward by the fusillade, the suitcasestill over his head... until he is blasted at last andforever, suitcase and all, into the molten core of theinferno.Sykes rises, makes his way to Jetson's side. Jetson haslet the weight of the gun carry his hand to the ground.Sykes kneels beside him, gently taking the gun from thealien's hand. The two partners remain like this, bathedin the orange flickering glow of the fire.HIGH WIDE SHOTof the drawbridge, the debris, the carnage, and our twocops... DISSOLVE TO:EXT. HENRY FORD BOULEVARD - NIGHTThe police mop-up is winding down. Cop cars, coroner'swagons, fire trucks. We MOVE through it all to find Sykesand Jetson seated on the curb, away from the railing. JETSON With Harcourt and Kipling dead, I assume you will be requesting reassignment now. SYKES (cool) It'd be for your own good. I think you'd be better off with a partner who's a little more... by the book. (smiles) ... Still, I gotta tell you, George, for a quiet guy, you're sure hell on wheels once you get going. I'd kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective.Jetson smiles. He glances up as they are bathed in redand blue light. A patrol car has pulled up next to them.Inside is Wiltey, a uniformed cop. WILTEY I'll give you guys a lift to the station. They're waiting to take your statements on the shootings. SYKES (to Jetson) Let's go, partner. (then casually correcting Wiltey as he rises) And it's shooting. Singular. WILTEY They said two. SYKES Nope. I didn't shoot Harcourt... he o.d.'d.SHOCK CUT - JETSONWe rapidly PUSH IN ON HIM as his head snaps around towardSykes. His expression tells us his blood has just turnedto ice. CUT TO:INT. CORONER'S WAGON - NIGHTANGLE FORWARD, shooting from the rear of the wagon, towardthe DRIVER and ATTENDANT up front. DRIVER So it's just me and her left in the hot tub, right? ATTENDANT You and the blonde? DRIVER No, man, the redhead. The blonde's gone in the house with some other guy. But a few minutes later she comes back out, alone, when me and the redhead are going at it fast and furious in the tub, ya know... and she sees us, and... she climbs right in with us... ATTENDANT You're full of shit! DRIVER I swear it! If I'm lyin', I'm dyin'...And, without warning, A LARGE INHUMAN HAND FLIES UP INF.G., having ripped through the sealed body bag just belowFRAME. CUT TO:INT. SQUAD CAR - NIGHTJetson is up front with Wiltey; Sykes sits in the back,though he is on the edge of the seat, leaning forwardtoward the front. Jetson is intently, nervously scanningahead and to both sides. JETSON You are certain this is the route they would have taken? WILTEY I'm not positive -- but probably. SYKES (warily) What's this about, George? I know that look. JETSON (spots something out a side window) There! Go back. Down that side street.Wiltey brakes, backs up, then turns into the side street.ANGLE THROUGH WINDSHIELDas they approach an eerie scene. The coroner's wagon isstopped at an angle in the middle of the intersection,headlights and roof lights cutting into the night, theback doors wide open. A patrol car is also here, on theother side of the wagon. There is no movement anywherenear the two vehicles.Wiltey pulls the car up, his eyes like saucers at theeerie scene. He reaches for the radio hand mike. Jetsonquickly covers it with a large hand. JETSON No! (both Sykes and Wiltey look at him) We must do this alone. SYKES Do what?! George-- ?!Jetson is already sliding out of the car.EXT. STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHTJetson, Sykes, and Wiltey move warily forward, their gunsdrawn. They reach the van and Sykes takes Wiltey'sflashlight, shines it through the open back doors. Thedoors are bent outward, smashed half off their hinges.One of the body bags is ripped open, literally split fromend to end. The blue and red lightbar on the other patrolcar can be seen through the wagon's front windshield.Jetson starts around the wagon toward the patrol car,Sykes and Wiltey follow. Lights all ablaze, it too isabandoned. One door has been wrenched off its hinges andlays in the street, and the front windshield is smashed.Our three cops approach the car, then Wiltey spotssomething beyond the unit. WILTEY Oh, God...Sykes and Jetson look.The bodies of the coroner wagon Driver and Attendant, aswell as the two OFFICERS from the patrol car, are crushedand beaten and stretched out on the asphalt. Their armsare twisted as though by a mad force -- each pointing downthe street toward the dock warehouses ahead. Wilteystumbles away, backward. WILTEY I'm calling for back up, now. JETSON Wiltey, no.But Wiltey is going. Jetson starts after him... but Sykesgrabs his arm, hard, and spins him. SYKES What is this?! JETSON (low) ... It's Harcourt. SYKES Harcourt is dead. JETSON No he's not. Not if he overdosed on the drug. (searches for the words) Massive amounts trigger a... a change. Your body functions seize up, you appear to be dead, but it's really a state of incubation. When you emerge you're... SYKES (looks at the four bodies sprawled before him) Tell me about it... CUT TO:EXT. STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHTOne minute later. OPEN CLOSE on a light shining intoCAMERA, then WIDEN to reveal it is one of the door-mountedspotlights on Wiltey's patrol car. Wiltey eases the cardown the center of the street. Sykes and Jetson, gunsready, walk slowly along on either side of the car... eyeseverywhere.MOVING POVas they move past the shadowy dock warehouses... watchingfor any signs of movement.BACK TO SCENESykes and Jetson converse across the hood of the car asthey walk. Their eyes everywhere. SYKES I never thought I'd say this, but -- for once in my life I think I'm willing to wait for back-up. JETSON We can't let him get away. SYKES Why the hell are you so dead set against back-up? JETSON (a difficult admission) Because... because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming. SYKES But there's no more drug. JETSON You understand that. But how many others will?Sykes looks across at Jetson's troubled expression.Just then, Wiltey spots a flit of movement cutting acrosshis headlight beams fifty yards ahead. Whatever it was,was large and fast. It darted into an open warehousedoor. WILTEY There he is!And Wiltey floors it. Sykes and Jetson watch, unable tostop him. JETSON Wiltey!He and Sykes take off running. Wiltey skids to the left,rockets in through the open warehouse door, out of sight.Sykes and Jetson pour it on. They hear a SCREECH OFBRAKES. They reach the warehouse door and race through.INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHTLOW ANGLE, SHOOTING ACROSS the underside of Wiltey'sstopped patrol car as Sykes' and Jetson's feet appeararound the corner of the warehouse door. The car is stillrunning -- the exhaust pipe still RUMBLING and expellingfumes. The feet slow... then cautiously start around thecar. We PAN with them as they move around the side of thecar. A dark liquid begins dripping in EXTREME F.G. WeMOVE UP, to a CLOSE UP of the car bumper. The dark liquidis blood, dripping deep red on the shiny chrome. We MOVEUP farther, and---- there is Wiltey's severed head. IN CLOSE UP, restingon the hood of the patrol car.Sykes and Jetson stop dead at the sight. Wiltey's bodylies in a heap on the floor near the car. They bothstare, then Sykes looks around the shadowy interior of thewarehouse, his expression saying: what the hell could havedone this so fast?THEIR POVThere are two paths to go. Both dark and scary as hell.The sound of a distant FOG HORN blends with the CREAKS andDRIPS of this waterfront building.ANGLE - SYKES AND JETSONJetson reaches into the patrol car and pulls the shotgunfrom the dash mount. He checks the chamber as Sykeschecks the Casull.They exchange a knowing look... then wordlessly, theysplit up. Sykes takes the path to the left, Jetson to theright.WITH JETSONAs he moves into a dark area. He slowly picks his wayalong a long wall, having to step over all sorts of pileddebris, heading toward us. We PAN slightly to the left toHOLD a door in CLOSE UP. The door, already ajar, easesopen slightly wider. Jetson hears this. He reaches thedoor, sets himself, then spins and kicks the door open allthe way. There's nothing inside... now.Jetson looks up, sees movement in the distance. It isSykes, quite far away, in another section of thewarehouse. Sykes leaves Jetson's field of view.INT. WAREHOUSE - GUARD'S AREA - NIGHTSykes walks around a corner -- freezes, and cocks his headas he hears VOICES -- followed, curiously, by LAUGHTER.He eases forward, peers around a bend, and sees -- a tableand a chair. On the table is a mini-television, tuned tosome local late night talk show. There's a thermos, asteaming cup of coffee, and a Twinkie with a single biteout of it beside the TV. The chair is empty, except for ajacket slung across the back, the word SECURITY stitchedon the breast. The guard is nowhere in sight.Sykes moves toward the table, taking in this eerie sight.He looks around, then continues on.INT. WAREHOUSE - APPROACHING STAIRS - NIGHTJetson moves among the dark nooks and crannies, comes to aset of stairs leading to an upper floor. The top of thestairs is pitch black. Jetson adjusts his grip on theshotgun, slowly starts up the stairs.INT. WAREHOUSE - AT FISH NETS - NIGHTSykes comes to rack upon rack of drying fish nets, hangingfrom the ceiling. He has no alternate route -- he beginspushing through them.SYKES' POV - MOVING THROUGH FISH NETSBecause of the dimness, he can't see much beyond each rackof nets immediately before him. He keeps wading through-- it's like a house of mirrors, he can't tell now muchfarther he has to go to get out of the nets, and thedeeper in he gets, the harder it would be to go back theway he came. He pushes past one particular rack of netsand looming out of the darkness ahead of him is---- a terrifying face!ON SYKESHe stumbles back, gets tangled in the nets, brings up theCasull, is about to fire when... he sees what the face is.It's the maiden's figurehead from the bow of an old ship.The wood is worm-eaten and decayed, creating a hideousvisage. Sykes stands there a moment, trying to jump-starthis heart again.INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHTJetson moves along the rickety planks. He comes to adoor. He eases it open, enters.INT. SECOND FLOOR ROOM - NIGHTJetson moves into the shadowy confines. He hears anincessant drip from a sink faucet in the corner. He movesto it. Turns the spigot, stopping the drip. Other dripsare HEARD from a dozen other hidden recesses all aroundhim. He glances up at the filthy mirror attached to thewall above the sink. Suddenly he sees the movement ofsomething behind him. He spins with the shotgun. A hugeshadow moves along the wall. He pivots the shotgun again-- toward the source of the shadow.It's a length of black tarp, torn and flapping from theceiling. Jetson lets out a deep breath.INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHTANGLE down a short passageway to an intersecting hallway.A strand of something hangs in FRAME in OUT OF FOCUS F.G.It makes an indistinct, rhythmic CLINKING SOUND. Sykesmoves along the intersecting hallway. The CLINKING SOUNDcatches his attention. He stops, listens, then startsdown the passageway, toward us.He comes forward into the storage room, having to get veryclose to the strand of something before he sees what itis. It's a double strand of chain, CLINKING gentlyagainst itself. Sykes reaches out, steadies the chain,silencing it. He considers. It could've been a naturaloccurrence... or something could have brushed against it,setting it in motion. He tightens his grip on the Casull,backing away from the chain. He senses something behindhim and spins. Nothing there. He relaxes. However--Behind him now, in SOFT FOCUS, we glimpse movement at theother end of the short passageway. It is a figure, movingslowly forward down the passageway, back-lit by thehallway light behind it, its shadow filling the passagewayas it approaches Sykes. It stops, inside the room now,directly behind Sykes. Close enough to reach out andtouch him. It is an alien silhouette, but larger, morepowerful.Suddenly, Sykes senses something is there. He turns,slowly, and--SHOCK CUT - HARCOURTas he steps from the shadows -- just like he did the lasttime Sykes saw him on the abandoned drawbridge. Only thistime it is a horribly transformed Harcourt. His eyes arered-rimmed and piggish. His head is lumpen, his skinthick and hard. His neck muscles are corded -- giving hima kind of hellish cobra's cowl. There is stillintelligence behind the eyes -- but it is a feralintelligence now. HARCOURT (his voice a guttural rumble) Looking for me, Sergeant?Sykes stumbles back several steps, wildly brings up theCasull, and fires. The powerful Casull round catchesHarcourt in the shoulder, jerking him back.EXT. WORK SHED AREA - NIGHTJetson, in another area of the docks, hears the echoingblast of the Casull. He gauges as best he can thedirection it came from and takes off running.INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHTHarcourt recovers from the jolt of the bullet impact. Thecloth of his disheveled shirt is shredded and powder-burned, but the bullet couldn't pierce his plated skin.Harcourt smiles with grotesquely altered teeth, startstoward Sykes.Scared shitless, Sykes rapid-fires. One of his shotsmisses, shattering a crate beside Harcourt's head. Theremaining shots strike Harcourt full on. Harcourt isjerked by the impact of the bullets each time, SNARLING inanger -- but none of the hits stop him. The Casull isempty and Harcourt keeps coming.Sykes stumbles back, but Harcourt is on him in a flash.Harcourt grabs Sykes' arm holding the gun, yanks hard. WeHEAR the POP as the shoulder dislocates. Sykes HOLLERS,and the gun jumps out of his hand.INT. WAREHOUSE - GUARD'S AREA - NIGHTJetson races in, shotgun ready. The last of Sykes' shotsare still ECHOING. Jetson looks around, frustrated,unable to tell exactly where they are coming from. Hesees the likely path and charges that way.EXT. DOCK - AT STAIRS - NIGHTOn the CUT, Sykes' body is already tumbling down theserickety stairs attached to the side of the warehouse,having been thrown ruthlessly from above. As Sykes' bodysprawls on the dock, the massive figure of Harcourtappears at the top of the stairs.Sykes, scraped and bruised, struggles to his feet.Harcourt moves down the stairs, then vaults over therailing the last fifteen feet. Harcourt lurches forwardand, with a taloned grip on Sykes' shoulders, propels himdown the docks.EXT. STREET NEAR DOCKS - NIGHTThe first two arriving black-and-whites skid to stops atthe coroner's wagon. The Officers leap out, flaggingother arriving units to continue on toward the warehouses.EXT. DOCKS - NIGHTSykes is on his feet, but his knees buckle, and he almostcollapses again. Harcourt comes at him. Then Sykes seesit---- a fishing boat chugging along past the end of one ofthe jetties. Sykes makes a break for it.EXT. WAREHOUSE - AT STAIRS - NIGHTJetson charges out at the top of the rickety stairs,frantically scanning for any sign of Sykes. Then, in thedistance, he spots the two figures running along the jetty-- Sykes being chased by the re-formed Harcourt. Jetsongives the water surrounding the docks an apprehensivelook, then gathers up his courage, and races down thestairs to help Sykes.EXT. JETTY - NIGHTSykes lumbers along the narrow jetty. The fishing boat isalready passing the end of the jetty. Harcourt is fastbehind Sykes as he reaches the end of the jetty and vaultsoff toward the stern of the boat -- landing on the fishingnet piled on the rear deck. He yells in pain as his ankletwists under his weight.EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHTSykes lies there, holding his arm, breathing hard,relieved that he has escaped.EXT. JETTY - NIGHTHarcourt can't reach the boat from the same jetty Sykesdid, so he jumps on a platform beside this jetty, thenonto a second jetty. And from here, he vaults across theseawater onto the boat.EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHTSykes sees the phantom figure land on the boat near thecabin. The fishing boat chugs up the channel toward theopen sea.EXT. DOCKS - NIGHTJetson sees this and is shitting bricks. Suddenly thestark BEAM of a police helicopter sun-gun stabs down fromabove. Jetson looks up to see the chopper coming in low,the sun-gun washing over the docks.INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTThe sun-gun hits Jetson standing on the dock, franticallywaving his badge at the 'copter, signaling it down. ThePilot starts to take it down.EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHTSykes is on all fours, clawing his way up the fishing nettoward the back of the boat. Harcourt gets one hand onhis leg. Sykes jerks his leg away, and Harcourt's clawsdig deep through Sykes' pants into his legs as he pullsaway. Sykes BELLOWS in pain.INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTJetson is barely in the seat as it lifts away from thedock. He has to catch himself from falling out the opendoor. Below, uniformed cops are now seen rushing out ontothe dock. JETSON On that boat -- out there!Jetson indicates the fishing boat headed toward the mouthof the channel. The helicopter tilts forward and goes.EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHTSykes manages to pull himself up into the dinghy hangingover the stern of the fishing boat. He pushes to the backof the dinghy as Harcourt's savage visage appears at thebow. Harcourt grins -- the predator with his preytrapped.INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTJetson's face is bathed in sweat as he looks out at thechannel water racing past beneath. They come up on theboat and the Pilot plays the sun-gun onto the deck,looking for movement, finally pinning Sykes and Harcourtat the stern dinghy.EXT. BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHTThe Captain reacts to the helicopter overhead, looks backat what the sun-gun spotlights. He sees Harcourt standingat the bow of the dinghy, starting to clamber in. CAPTAIN Hey!EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHTHarcourt turns, sees the Captain on the bridge above him.He reaches for a wood-handled gaff nearby. He rears backwith it and lets it fly like a spear.EXT. BRIDGE OF FISHING BOAT - NIGHTThe gaff impales the Captain, off-center in his chest.The Captain, his face frozen in shock, is thrown backagainst the throttle. The boat lunges forward as theengines REV loudly.EXT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHTHarcourt is thrown into the dinghy with Sykes. AsHarcourt recovers, Sykes spots the release for the tieline on the dinghy. He lunges forward, throwing theratchet. The line plays out, and the dinghy slidesbackward into water!INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTJetson watches this happen.EXT. DINGHY - NIGHTThe dinghy bangs along (at the end of the ten foot tieline) in the wake of the speeding fishing boat.Harcourt claws his way toward Sykes. Water is alreadysplashing in over the stern transom... the dinghy issinking. Harcourt grabs Sykes' leg and pulls him towardhim. Sykes holds on to the stern cleats with all hismight. Harcourt yanks him free. Sykes kicks wildly atthe ratchet release, trying to free the remainder of theline. Harcourt is coming in for the kill when---- Sykes' foot connects with the ratchet lever. The restof the tie line snakes through the ratchet, freeing thedinghy from the fishing boat!The dinghy is rocking wildly, sinking fast. A wave fromthe fishing boat's wake splashes in over the side. Someof it hits Harcourt -- he HOWLS and falls away. Sykessees this, tries to clamber over the side, but Harcourt ison him again. Sykes' body weight at the side of thedinghy coupled with the rocking motion cause more water towash in over the transom.INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTJetson reacts to Sykes and Harcourt battling in the dinghybelow.EXT. DINGHY - NIGHTHarcourt, who is getting more and more wet, HOWLS inagony, thick blood beginning to bead wherever the watertouches. Sykes is taking one hell of a beating. Harcourtsweeps Sykes up in a bear hug, is about to crush his ribcage, when Sykes shifts his body weight, knocking Harcourtoff balance. Harcourt wobbles, fear on his face for thefirst time -- then he finally loses it, and the two ofthem tumble overboard into the water, capsizing thedinghy.EXT. WATER - NIGHTSykes breaks the surface, gasping for air, franticallyclawing with his one good arm at the wedge of dinghy stillabove the water. Suddenly, behind him, Harcourt'spartially melted form erupts from the water, lunges on topof Sykes, and drags him under.INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTJetson hangs in the open door, watching in horror, wantingto help, knowing he can't.EXT. WATER - NIGHTSykes breaks the surface, Harcourt's misshapen lump of abody unmoving but still on top of him. Sykes shoves itaway, struggling to stay afloat. His head keeps dunkingunder. He's drowning.INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTJetson screws up his courage and turns to the Pilot. JETSON Take it down! Take it down!EXT. WATER AND HELICOPTER - NIGHTThe helicopter moves down toward the turbulent water.Jetson hangs in the doorway, watching Sykes' head dunkingunder again. The helicopter's skids are three feet abovethe water. JETSON (to Pilot) ALL THE WAY! PILOT I CAN'T IT'LL DITCH!Sykes' outreached hand stretches up from the water, butthe skid is just too high. Jetson has no alternative, andhe does the bravest thing he has ever done. He moves outonto the narrow helicopter skid. Hanging on, three feetabove the water, he reaches down for Sykes' up reachinghand.The fingertips of the two hands waver mere inches fromeach other... Jetson stretches farther, farther... and thetwo hands meet! Jetson winces from the pain of theseawater on Sykes' hand. He starts pulling Sykes up.When--HARCOURT'S HEAD BREAKS THE SURFACE A FOOT FROM SYKES'FACE. His eye sockets are empty and his skin is mostlygone. The nearly skeletal body heaves blindly onto Sykes,breaking his grip from Jetson's, and dragging him underagain.Jetson is frantic. He keeps waiting -- but this timeSykes doesn't come up. Jetson doesn't know what to do.Finally -- he leans down as far as he can, his face a footfrom the water, SCREAMS to block the pain, and plunges hisown arm below the surface! He feels around, gets hold ofsomething, and pulls. It is Sykes' wrist. He pulls hard,bringing the sputtering Sykes up out of the water. JETSON (to Pilot) Take it up!The Pilot does. Sykes comes up out of the water. Hisfeet are just clear of the surface when -- Harcourt's handand arm rocket out of the water, grabbing Sykes' ankle.Sykes looks down in horror. The helicopter keeps movingup, and before Harcourt's body breaks the surface, the armtears away from the torso at the shoulder. Sykes wildlyshakes the clinging severed arm from his ankle, and itfalls back into the water below.Jetson continues pulling him up into the helicopter as itmoves off toward shore.INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHTSykes plops on the floor, soaked, battered, holding hislimp arm. Jetson is quickly whipping off his jacket,wrapping the dry part around his own arm, wincing in pain.The Pilot stare down at the circle of water where theyjust pulled Sykes from. PILOT What the hell was that down there? It was weird.Jetson looks at Sykes, wondering if he will say. Sykeslooks at Jetson a long moment, then-- SYKES Looked like every other damn slag to me. Just plain ugly.Despite the pain, Jetson smiles. LONG DISSOLVE TO:INT. CHURCH ANTEROOM - DAYWe are CLOSE on Sykes, who is having a hell of a time,trying to tie a tuxedo tie with one arm in a sling. APAIR OF ALIEN ARMS reach into FRAME to help him. One ofthe alien arms is also in a sling.ANGLE WIDENS to reveal the alien is Jetson. Both men weartuxedos. SYKES How do I look? JETSON You look very good.There's a knock at the door. Sykes opens it. Therestands Sykes' daughter, KRISTIN, twenty years old, lookingradiant in her wedding dress. She is in a foyer, andbehind her is the interior of the church with all theassembled guests, including Mrs. Jetson & son. KRISTIN Ready, Daddy...?Sykes' heart melts. Before moving to the door: SYKES George, uh... I want to apologize now, in advance, for all the rotten things I'll ever say or do to you over the years.Sykes moves to join his daughter. As he does: JETSON That is all right, Matthew. After all, you are only human.Sykes, caught off guard, has to laugh. SYKES (under his breath) What a wildman...Sykes takes his daughter's arm and the two of them startdown the aisle. FADE OUT. THE END