SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS by Clifford Odets Ernest Lehman Working Script For THE SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESSFADE IN:EXT. INT. GLOBE NEWSPAPER BUILDING - DUSK - N.Y.A row of newspaper delivery trucks is lined up against thelong loading bay, waiting for the edition. In the foregrounda large clock establishes the time as 8:10 PM. A rumblingnoise warns the men to take their positions; a few secondslater the bales of newspapers come sliding the spiral chutesonto the moving belts from which they are manhandled ontothe trucks. Much noise and shouting.The front truck moves out to the city street. As it doesCAMERA EMPHASIZES the big poster on its side. The designfeatures a large pair of spectacles with heavy rims - atrademark of Hunsecker's. (It will later be seen as themasthead of the gossip column.) "GO WITH THE GLOBE" Read J.J. HUNSECKER "They eyes of Broadway"EXT. BROADWAY - DUSK - N.Y.The truck starts on its journey along Broadway. Some shotsare of the vehicle moving through very heavy traffic (takenfrom a camera car). Others are from the inside of thetruck; as it slows down, the delivery man tosses the heavybundle of papers onto the sidewalk. CAMERA following thetruck, holds it in foreground against the blazing electricsigns of Broadway and Times Square.EXT. BROADWAY - NIGHTThe southeast corner of the intersection of Broadway and46th Street, CAMERA, fairly high, shoots north towards theimpressive vista of electric signs, silhouetted against thedarkening sky. Very heavy traffic and crowded sidewalks.CAMERA descends towards the Orange Juice stand on thecorner, passing the booth which sells souvenir hats. Itmoves through the congestion of chattering passersby,steadily approaching a smartly dressed young man, who standsat the counter of the Orange Juice stand. Oblivious of thehub-bub around him, SIDNEY FALCO is concerned only with hisprivate problems.He turns sharply as a newspaper truck pulls up at the curbbehind him; this is what he has been waiting for...CLOSER ANGLE - NIGHTThe news truck delivery man tosses a bundle out onto thesidewalk besides a newsstand.DETAILThe bundle of newspapers. It hits the sidewalk with a smack.CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney Falco crosses the sidewalk. Theowner of the newsstand, IGGY, comes to pick up the bundle;he is a grizzled gnome with a philosophical sense of humor;Sidney snaps his fingers with impatience. Iggy wearsspectacles and is clearly more or less blind, he has togrope for the cord that binds the papers. IGGY Aw Lady, if I looked like you, I'd-- SIDNEY C'mon...C'mon... IGGY (recognizing Sidney's voice) Keep ya sweatshirt on, Sidney.Majestically taking his time, Iggy lifts the bundle to hisstand and cuts the cord. IGGY Hey, Fresh, the Globe just came in -- Hey, Sidney, want an item for Hunsecker's column? Two rolls get fresh with a baker! Hey, hot, hot, hot -- etc.Annoyed, Sidney throws him a dime, seizes a paper andreturns briskly to the orange juice stand.ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHTSidney's place at the crowded counter has been taken bynewcomers. Rudely, he recovers his half-consumed glass oforange juice and sandwich. He takes them further down thecounter to a quieter corner at which he can examine thepaper. CAMERA MOVING WITH HIM, picks up further snatches ofoverheard dialogue. (See dialogue attached at the end of thescene) We move close enough to see Sidney's hands open thepaper expertly at HUNSECKER'S column - identifiable by thepicture of the spectacled eyes. Over scene there is ababble of offstage dialogue.CLOSE UP OF SIDNEYHis face is sullen as his eyes run rapidly down the column.He is reacting to a not unexpected disappointment.EXT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - BROADWAY - NIGHTCAMERA SHOOTS WEST on 46th Street, as Sidney comes down theside street from the newsstand in background. Irritably, hejerks open the door of a shabby entrance. As the glass doorcloses, Sidney is seen striding up the stairs.FIRST FLOOR - OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHTBeside the top of the stairs is the door to Sidney's office.On it there is a cheaply printed cardboard sign which reads:SIDNEY FALCOPublicityFrom inside comes the sound of desultory typing. Sidneycomes up the stairs two at a time and turns into the door.INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHTSALLY is on the phone as Sidney strides in. SALLY Just a minute, Mr. Weldon. I think...Sidney vigorously indicates that he doesn't want to take thecall. SALLY (to phone) I'm sorry. I thought that was Mr. Falco returning. Yes, I'll tell him when he comes in. I know he's been trying to reach you.She hangs up. SALLY That's the third time he's called today. SIDNEY He wants me to break a leg? SALLY (literally) No, an arm, he said. (then) I told him you were sure the item would be in Mr. Hunsecker's column in tomorrow's... SIDNEY (interrupting, sharply) It isn't. I've just seen the early edition. SALLY But... SIDNEY But what? SALLY That makes five days in a row that Mr. Hunsecker's cut you out of his column. SIDNEY May I rent you out as an adding machine.He has begun to change his clothes. SIDNEY Get me Joe Robard.Sally goes back into the outer room. SIDNEY Who else phoned? SALLY The renting agent and the tailor. SIDNEY Pay the rent. Let the tailor wait. SALLY It won't leave much of a balance in the bank... (to phone) Mr. Robard? Could you locate him?Sidney, in a state of semi-undress, comes to take the phonefrom her. SIDNEY (gloomily) Watch me run a fifty yard dash with my legs cut off!Very abruptly, he comes alive on the phone. A real laughingboy. SIDNEY (effusively) Sidney, Joe. How do you like it? I'm running out of alibis! No, I asked Hunsecker to withhold the item, until he could give it a fine, fat paragraph. The column was running over and I didn't want you kissed off with just a line...INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTRobard is a stolid, secure man, balding and with a moustache.He has a morose sense of humor. He is speaking from atelephone on a little desk at the end of the bar. Inbackground, the Club is open, but there are few customers asyet. Some recorded jazz is being played while the musiciansare still arriving, strolling past in background, depositingtheir overcoats and music cases in the little closet assignedto them. ROBARD (in answer to Sidney) Of course. (he listens to protest from Sidney) What is this, Sidney, a kissing game? You're a liar - that's a publicity man's nature. I wouldn't hire you if you wasn't a liar. I pay you a C-and-a-half a week wherein you plant big lies about me and the Club all over the map. (a pause) Yeah, I mean in that sense. But also in the sense that you are a personal liar, too, because you don't do the work I pay you for. (new protests on the other end of the line) Oh, stop it, Sidney. You're from the country, not me.RESUME SIDNEYSally is watching him, unhappy on his behalf. SIDNEY (to phone) Now, wait a minute, Joe. When I saw J.J. last night he said...But Robard has cut off. Sidney hangs up. A silence. Sallytries to be comforting. SALLY I wish I could help in some way, Sidney. SIDNEY (aggressively) Help me with two minutes of silence!Sally, hurt, says nothing. Presently, he adds: SIDNEY Go home, Sally. It's late... SALLY I hate to see you like this --Sidney, with another mercurial change of manner, begins somesarcastic clowning. SIDNEY (horsing around) Yes, but as a new subscriber you're under no obligation to take more than three books. And if you mail the enclosed card within ten days -- SALLY (pleadingly) Sidney, I know you by now. Don't do a dance with me... SIDNEY (still clowning) You mean you don't want the extra free gift of a colorful giant map of the world??? SALLY (distressed) Sidney, please, dear, if you feel nervous...Sidney is abruptly savage. SIDNEY (with cruelty) So what'll you do if I feel nervous? You'll open your meaty, sympathetic arms...? SALLY (breaking down) Sid...you got me so...I don't know what...She is crying. Sidney feels uncomfortable. Not toogenerously, he relents: SIDNEY You ought to be used to me by now. SALLY (pathetically) I'm used to you... SIDNEY (with a touch of bitterness) No. You think I'm a hero. I'm no hero. I'm nice to people where it pays me to be. I gotta do it too much on the outside, so don't expect me to kow-tow in my own office. I'm in a bind right now with Hunsecker so -- (grimly) Every dog has his day! (going) Lock up and leave the key.The phone rings. Sidney is dressed by now. As Sally goesfor it, he makes for the outer door. SIDNEY If that's for me, tear it up! SALLY Take a top coat. SIDNEY And leave a tip in every hat-check room in town?He is already gone as she picks up the phone. SALLY Sidney Falco office... Oh, Miss Kay, he tried to reach you. No, he's at the barbers now. No, that's held over till the Tuesday column... LAP DISSOLVE TO:INT. ELYSIAN ROOM - NIGHTThe quintet. As the dissolve clears, a clatter of politeapplause greets the end of a previous number. CAMERA is onthe bandstand, moving smoothly through the group of fivemusicians as the rhythm of a new number is set up: first theleader (a guitarist) snaps his fingers, giving the tempoto...the bass, who "walks" with the beat, bringing in...thedrums, which start a quiet, insistent wire-brush backgroundfor...the cello and the flute, whose introductory phrases,set the stage for...STEVE DALLAS...the guitar, the leader again. It comes in after thisshort preamble with the first statement of melody. (The tunehas a faint echo of significance because it is one of thethemes of the film, already heard as a phrase in thebackground score of the title music.) CAMERA lingers amoment on the guitarist, STEVE DALLAS. He is a youth ofpleasant, intelligent appearance. He plays with the intentair of the contemporary jazz musician who takes his workvery seriously indeed and affects a much greater interest inthe music and his fellow musicians than in the listeningaudience.SIDNEYA close shot. Sidney has just entered the club, strollinginto the vestibule near the entrance. He wears an expressionof oddly unsuitable antagonism, as he looks forward...DALLASSeen in long shot from Sidney's viewpoint. CAMERA moves toinclude Sidney in foreground again. He turns as he isaccosted by RITA, the cigarette girl of the club. She is apert creature, attractive and not unaware of the fact. RITA Don't you ever get messages, Eyelashes? I called you twice. SIDNEY (irked) I've been up to here. Listen, honey, tell me something. You know Susan Hunsecker...? (Rita nods) Has she been in? I mean lately, in the last coupla days...? RITA I don't think so. SIDNEY You're sure. Find out for me. RITA (with a nod) Sidney, can I talk to you a minute?Rita wears an injured air. Sidney, preoccupied with otherworries, callously ignores it. SIDNEY Is Frank D'Angelo around? RITA At the bar - Sidney...But Sidney has moved away from her.D'ANGELOHe is at the bar, listening with satisfaction to the music,watching the performers and studying the audience. Sidneycomes up behind him. We see Sidney's eyes flick fromD'Angelo towards the bandstand and back again. Then, as hetakes the stool next to D'Angelo, he assumes a differentmanner, a sulky resentment. D'Angelo sees Sidney. D'ANGELO (to the bartender) Joe, give my nephew a drink. SIDNEY (sullen) Your nephew doesn't want a drink.D'Angelo is still watching the quintet. The guitar can beheard again.ANOTHER ANGLEShooting past D'Angelo and Sidney towards the bandstand. D'ANGELO That's a lollipop that, boy. The kid is only great. SIDNEY And with ten percent of his future, you're great, too, Frank.D'Angelo looks quickly at Sidney, sensing the undercurrent.Then he turns his back on the musicians, remarking in aquiet tone. D'ANGELO Went over to Philly yesterday an' seen the folks...it's nice you send them the fifty a month... SIDNEY (after a pause) See my mother? D'ANGELO (shaking his head) I only had a few hours.A glum moment. Frank sips his highball: Sidney lights acigarette, animosity on his face. D'ANGELO Thanks for the publicity spread you got the boys for the benefit tomorrow. SIDNEY (begrudgingly) Robard's my client. I did it for him and his club, not your boys.Frank again notes Sidney's resentful manner. Sidney lookstowards the musicians. SIDNEY (quietly) Frank, I think maybe you lied to me. D'ANGELO (quietly) Looka, Sidney, you're my own sister's son, but where does that give you the right to call me a liar? SIDNEY (looking towards Steve) You told me that your boy was washed up with Susie Hunsecker, didn't you? D'ANGELO Yeah, and it's the truth, to the best of my knowledge. And, frankly, I'm glad. For Steve's sake, I'm glad, not yours. I manage these boys and I got their best interests at heart. Steve shouldn't get mixed up with no bimbo at his age. SIDNEY (narrowly) You told him that? D'ANGELO Not in those exact words - you know what a temper he's got.A pause. Sidney is thinking. SIDNEY When do these hot-headed boys of yours go on the road? D'ANGELO Coupla weeks. For eight weeks. SIDNEY That's a nice tour. All booked? (Frank nodding) When was Susie around here last? D'ANGELO Four five nights ago. That's how I know the romance is off. Also Steve's in a very bad mood. SIDNEY (abruptly) Listen, Frank, you'd better make sure you're telling me the truth. D'ANGELO (annoyed) I don't like this threatening attitude. When it comes to it, what the heck is it your business what they do, this boy and girl...RITALocating Sidney, she comes up behind him. He turns awayfrom D'Angelo as she whispers to him. As she departs,Sidney turns back. SIDNEY If you knew Hunsecker as well as I did, you might understand why it's my business. Maybe you're walking around blind, Frank, without a cane.Sidney gets off his stool. Casually, but to effect, he adds: SIDNEY ...and in case you didn't know it, Susie Hunsecker's out there on the back step right now.He turns away, glancing towards Steve on the bandstandbehind him.D'ANGELOHe looks disturbed.INT./EXT. BACKSTAGE AND COURTYARDFrom D'Angelo's point of view. CAMERA LOOKS UP at Steve.The Quintet is now reaching the end of the number, a drivingrhythm of considerable excitement. A waiter passes in f.g.and the CAMERA CRANES BACK through the curtained doorway tothe backstage part of the club. This movement is continuedas we see some other employees, including Jerry Wiggins, theintermission pianist, who is waiting in the corridor nearthe fire-exit. As he steps out of the door to discard acigarette, CAMERA AGAIN CONTINUES ITS MOVEMENT, CRANING BACKAND DOWNWARD into the little courtyard. Here, it discoversthe figure of a young woman who is waiting in the shadownear the steps of the fire-escape, listening to the music.CLOSER ANGLEThis is SUSAN HUNSECKER. She wears an expensive mink coat.It is oddly in contrast with her personality; the face issensitive and intelligent, but childlike and tragic. A girlin adolescence already burdened with problems beyond hercapacity. Over scene, the music continues. Susan shiftsher position, knowing that the session will soon be at anend and that the musicians will be coming backstage.INT. ELYSIAN ROOMSteve is playing the last bars of the number; the wholegroup now in unison.QUINTETThe music comes sharply, dramatically to its finish. Thereis some applause. The boys relax. Steve reaches for themicrophone and in the characteristically casual manner ofthe "cool" musician, announces the end of the set, thankingthe audience, identifying the quintet by name and introducingthe intermission pianist. During this, Carson, Chico andPaul wander off the bandstand behind him.EXT. BACKSTAGE AND COURTYARDChico, Paul and Carson come through to the corridor backstage.As they do so, Chico, glancing out of the open door seesSusan in the courtyard. He goes out onto the fire-escape;Paul following behind. CHICO Hi! Susie... SUSAN Hello, Chico. Paul. CHICO (to Paul) Throw a rope round this chick while I go get Steve.Chico goes swiftly back into the club. Paul remains withSusan. There is a momentary silence; Paul is embarrassedbecause Susan is. Susan makes an effort at conversation,she nods towards the club. SUSAN Full house...? PAUL Packin' 'em in.INT. CLUBSteve has been trapped by a young woman in spectacles, amuch-too-earnest devotee of progressive jazz. DEVOTEE I'm terribly interested in jazz -- serious jazz. You studied with Milhaud, didn't you? This is such an interesting fusion of the traditional, classical form with the new progressive style, I just wanted to ask you how you came to form the group...-CHICOHe comes through the curtains of the doorway, pausing as hesees that Steve is involved with the Intellectual Young Woman.REVERSE ANGLESteve glancing at Chico over the shoulder of the IntellectualYoung Woman. Seeing that Chico has something to say to him,he wriggles out of the young woman's clutches by passing thebuck to the unfortunate to Fred Katz, who is descending fromthe bandstand behind him. STEVE Well, we just sort of got together. (turning to introduce Fred) Maybe if you ask Mr. Katz...He writes the stuff, you know. FRED (blankly) Huh?RESUME CHICOSteve joins Chico and they go through the curtains into thecorridor outside.CORRIDORChico, smiling, explains: CHICO Don't waste your time there, man. You've got something better waiting outside... (as Steve looks at him) Susie's out there.STEVEHis reaction betrays some emotion. (Over scene theintermission pianist has begun to play a Blues number.)Steve moves a quick step towards the door to the courtyard,then hesitates - almost as if he was afraid to go out. Hemeets Chico's eye again. STEVE What did she say...?CHICOHe is amused, but sympathetic. CHICO You proposed to her, not me. (slapping him on the back) Go get your answer...COURTYARDSusan, waiting at the foot of the iron steps, turns as Stevecomes out on the fire escape above. Steve comes quicklydown the steps towards her, slowing down when he gets a fewpaces away from her.SUSANShe looks up at Steve.STEVEA CLOSE SHOT. In his expression we read his mute inquiry...RESUME SUSANQuite deliberately, with her eyes moistened by love andaffection...she nods.REVERSE ANGLEGreat relief and happiness can be seen in the boy's face.After a moment, he moves to her and she to him. Theyembrace swiftly, hold each other close and then kiss withpassion. Presently, when the kiss is over, Susan speakssoftly. SUSAN (in a whisper) Steve...I'll...I'll try to make a good wife.Steve is still too choked with relief to speak. For answer,he clasps her more tightly to him. The beam of light whichfalls on the iron stairs behind them, narrows and then isextinguished...CORRIDORPaul has closed the door. Turning, he shares a look withthe grinning Chico and Fred Katz who has managed to escapefrom the young woman. Before there is time for either ofthem to make a remark, Sidney comes through the curtainsfrom the Club. SIDNEY Hi, Fellows. Where's the Chief?Sidney's manner is very friendly. But it is immediatelyapparent from the reaction of the other three boys that noneof them likes Sidney. Fred is deliberately uncomprehending. FRED Who? SIDNEY (who gets the point) Dallas. Is he around?Chico's back is to the closed door which opens onto thecourtyard. Chico nods in the opposite direction towards thestairs. CHICO (unhelpfully) Yeah, he's around somewhere. Upstairs, maybe. SIDNEY (coldly, as he goes) Thanks.COURTYARDSteve and Susan are still embracing. Steve is exultantlyproud and happy. STEVE (incoherent) This is big, you know. Very big! Let's go out later, drink some firewater. With the boys. Fred can call Millie and - SUSAN Steve, I'd rather you didn't say anything for a day or two...until I tell my brother...STEVEHis sobering reaction shows this is something important. STEVE (gently) You haven't told him yet...SUSAN SUSAN I'm telling him in the morning after breakfast.STEVE AND SUSANTurning her head, she makes a little gesture, an unconsciousmovement, putting her fingers to her brow as if feeling aheadache. STEVE He isn't going to like it.Susan says nothing. She looks to Steve, smiling, but thesmile is not too confident. STEVE You sure you don't want me to be with you...?Susan stoutly shakes her head. Defensively she reassuresSteve: SUSAN Steve, my brother isn't as bad as he's painted. He isn't perfect, but - STEVE But he isn't going to like this, Susie. And he makes you nervous, not me. No, I take that back - he makes me nervous, too. But I wouldn't give him a second thought if not for you.The topic evidently makes Susan uneasy. In an effort todismiss something that she does not want to think about,Susan puts her arms around Steve's neck again. SUSAN Let's forget him and -But Steve is not so ready to change the subject. STEVE His stooge, Falco, is around - I saw him walk in. (soberly) He's been spying on me for weeks, Susie. SUSAN (quickly, perhaps too quickly) Darling, I don't care - really I don't. Sidney'd had a secret crush on me for years, but nothing we do is his business - STEVE (gently insisting) But he could be reporting back to your brother, couldn't he? SUSAN (pleading) Steve, dear, please forget all of this. What can it matter after tomorrow?Now Steve responds. He grins, holds her closer. STEVE (softly) I have a message for you; I love you. (kissing her lightly) May I dedicate the next number to you?...And the next, and the next. Every Sunday I'll buy you a new bonnet - SUSAN (amused, but moved) If the stores are open - STEVE And on Monday, I'll take it off and stroke your light brown hair and - SUSAN And on Tuesday - Hasenpfeffer. STEVE (abruptly grinning) How do you think I realized I love you? SUSAN I made you write a beautiful song... STEVE No, you had me eating that Chinese food!...They laugh and enjoyably; but then, as the CAMERA MOVES, werealize that Sidney is there on the fire escape above them;his manner is affable. SIDNEY Can more than two enjoy this joke... (to Susan) Hello, Susie, I didn't expect to find you here.Steve says nothing. But he obviously resents the intrusionand finds it difficult to conceal the fact. Sidney comesdown the fire escape towards them. SIDNEY Where's those glossy prints you promised? Tonight's the latest I can place them - STEVE (barely polite) Well, thanks, anyway - let's forget it. (to Susan) It's cold out here, Susie.Steve makes a move to lead Susan back inside. It is agesture which appears to dismiss Sidney. Sidney chooses totake umbrage: SIDNEY (lightly sarcastic) Let me apologize for getting you that press spread. It's been an honor to serve you gratis.Steve turns to Sidney; his manner is quiet but challenging: STEVE (levelly) I get the feeling, Falco, that you're always snooping around... SUSAN (quickly intervening) Steve, stop it please...ANOTHER ANGLEFrank D'Angelo has followed Sidney out onto the fire escape;other members of the Quintet have also appeared. D'ANGELO What are you boys fighting about?Aggressively indignant, Sidney throws up his hands; heknocks on the metal of the fire escape. SIDNEY (sarcastic) Kill me! Find me a door somewhere - I walked in without knocking!Sidney is trying to needle Steve; Steve's temper wouldnormally have exploded; but now he controls it. STEVE I'm feeling too good to fight with you, but that isn't what I said - I said you snoop. For instance, what were you doing around my hotel the other night? SIDNEY (needling) Begging your pardon, I haven't been down the bowery in years! D'ANGELO (soothingly) Come on boys, break it up... STEVE (overriding D'Angelo) The next time you want information, Falco, don't scratch for it like a dog - ask for it like a man!SIDNEYHis face tightens; he appears to be mortally insulted andcontrolling himself with difficulty. He turns his backswiftly on Steve, addressing Susan in a voice that has asharp edge. SIDNEY If you're going home, Susie, I'll drop you off...Sidney starts quickly up the fire escape. This makes Steveangry and he steps forward to follow him. But Chicocontrives, without seeming to interfere to obstruct Steve. CHICO (easily) Time for the next set, Chief... STEVE Just a minute, Chico.CORRIDORSidney comes inside. When he is out of sight or the groupin the courtyard, his manner swiftly changes. It's obviousnow that his indignation was assumed; now he looks backtowards the courtyard and there is shrewdness in his eyes;he is assessing Steve's temper. But, presently, seeingD'Angelo and the boys returning, he moves back to thecurtains into the Club.COURTYARDAs D'Angelo and the other boys go inside, Steve turns backto Susan. STEVE (fondly) Just so you don't leave me in a minor key.INT. CLUBRita has succeeded in recapturing Sidney near the entranceto the club. Sidney, alert and interested, listens to herwhile keeping his eye on the bandstand in b.g. where theintermission pianist is finishing his performance and thequintet are returning, ready to mount the bandstand again. SIDNEY Don't tell me you started a polka with Leo Bartha? RITA (shaking her head) No. That's what I mean - I'm being fired for what I didn't do.Sidney is amused. Rita continues in a confidential mannerwhich is heavily loaded with sex appeal and not-very-convincing air of injury. RITA (soto voce) He came in last week on a very dull rainy night. I know who he was, but I didn't let on. (emphatically) He didn't take his eyes off me all night. Listening...?Rita has mistaken Sidney's shrewdly calculating expressionfor inattention. SIDNEY Avidly. He was staring. RITA (continuing) Staring. Consequently, when he approached me on his way out I wasn't surprised, but I didn't let on. SIDNEY (prompting) He was writing a special Sunday piece on...? RITA (nodding) ...cigarette girls... And naturally - SIDNEY You were thrilled to be interviewed. (she nods) Were you "interviewed"? RITA In his apartment - SIDNEY And where was his wife? RITA I don't know - it's a big apartment. But I wasn't interviewed. In fact, I was totally unprepared for what happened. SIDNEY (grimacing) We're old friends, Chickie - quit it! A big columnist comes in this room, without his ball-and-chain and you make like a delicatessen counter! What did you think would happen in his house? RITA (with a nod) But, Sidney darling, the man must be out of his mind - it was only eleven o'clock in the morning!Despite himself, Sidney chuckles; but she is distressed. RITA For a moment I was so taken aback that I said anything that popped into my sleepy head. If I'm not mistaken, I even ordered the man out of his own house.Sidney's eyes have been caught by something at the other endof the big room.STEVE AND SUSANFrom Sidney's viewpoint. Susan has come back into the clubwith Steve and seems to be taking leave of him. She startsto walk through the club on her way out.RESUME SIDNEY AND RITASidney, with half his attention on Susan and Steve, listensto Rita's rueful protest. RITA (rapidly) He was furious and, by the time I could have put on a Tropical Island mood, I was out on the street!... (dolefully) That night Mr. Van Cleve calls me into his office here. He's got nothing against me, he says but he can't afford to antagonize columnists. I told him I still have Sonny at military academy, but Van Cleve's made of ice...Aware that Sidney is moving to leave her so that he cancatch Susan, Rita detains him with an appeal: RITA (tentative) Do you think you could do something, Sidney? SIDNEY (a quick nod) That's what I'm thinking, Rita. Maybe...Rita is anxious to cement the offer. Delicately, she asks: RITA Do you still keep your key under the mat? SIDNEY (eyeing her) Can you be there by two-thirty?She drops her eyes, nods. Sidney pats her arm and is gone.She looks after him.SIDNEY AND SUSANSidney overtakes Susan at the front entrance in time to openthe door for her. He has now reverted to another mood inwhich he appears to be sulking over the insult delivered tohim by Steve. He goes out ahead of her.BANDSTANDThe quintet are resuming their positions on the stand.Steve lingers a moment, his guitar already in his hand whilehe talks to D'Angelo. STEVE Frank, I don't want any secrets from you. I proposed to Susie tonight.D'Angelo hides his feelings, asks: D'ANGELO Did she accept? STEVE You don't like it, do you. I think she will accept, but I'm not sure. She may be too dependent on her brother.He mounts the bandstand. D'ANGELO (solemnly) Lots of good people in this town are dependent on her brother...Steve sits on the stool, quietly gives the beat to his groupand begins at once the guitar opening of a very simple andlonely melody. (The Sage.)ANOTHER ANGLEWhile D'Angelo watches him, the boy continues. CAMERAtracks slowly back through the club as the chatter andbabble of the customers begins to diminish in appreciationof the quiet melancholy of the music.OUTSIDE THE ELYSIAN ROOMSusan is standing beside the poster which features Steve,listening to the music from inside the club. Sidney comesto join her. He is now pretending to be hurt. SUSAN You're touchy, Sidney - don't be so touchy... SIDNEY (gruffly) I wasn't looking for a brawl. I came to bring him a present. (then) Wanna bite to eat?Susan shakes her head. She looks up as she hears thedoorman's whistle off screen. Sidney moves forward toescort her to the taxi.LONGER SHOTThey cross the sidewalk and get into the cab. It starts offand CAMERA PANS with it.INSIDE CABSusan is relaxed, content but thoughtful. Sidney flicks hera quick, anxious look. Finally, gloomily: SIDNEY Feels like a Monday night, don't it...? SUSAN (softly) Not to me. Sometimes, the world feels like a cage. Then someone comes along and opens the door...and it's never Monday night again... (turning to Sidney) I wish you and Steve could like each other. SIDNEY (grimacing) We stick in each others craw. SUSAN Yes, but why? SIDNEY Well, for one thing, he thinks J.J. is some kind of monster.SUSANQuizzically, she studies Sidney. SUSAN Don't you?SIDNEYHe looks up sharply, (he is momentarily startled at Susan'sinsight.) Swiftly, he assumes a protesting air. SIDNEY Susie, your brother's one of my best friends, and -RESUME SUSANShe is not totally convinced by this performance. Shesmiles skeptically. SUSAN I know. But someday I'd like to look into your clever mind and see what you REALLY think of him -RESUME SIDNEY AND SUSANSidney makes a show of indignation. SIDNEY Where do you come off to make a remark like that? SUSAN (quietly) Who could love a man who keeps jumping through burning hoops, like a trained poodle?Sidney doesn't immediately answer. Susan drops her eyes,becoming absorbed in her own problems. Cautiously, Sidneylets the momentary silence continue. Then: SUSAN (thoughtfully) Do you think J.J. likes Steve...? SIDNEY (glibly) Frankly, yes, to my surprise. He thinks he's very gifted - those boys'll go a big mile, he thinks.Susan says nothing. Sidney, watching her closely, probesfurther: SIDNEY (gently) You feel pretty strong about this boy?A pause. Then Susan nods. She is not looking at Sidney andcannot see the watchfulness in his face. Sidney promptsagain: SIDNEY Wedding bells, you mean?Again Susan nods. SUSAN He wants me to go on the road with them. It's an eight month tour, all the way to Oregon...SIDNEYThe news has considerable impact on him. But he hides it,saying lightly: SIDNEY Well, congratulations. But don't go just for the ride! Or didn't you accept the proposal?RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEYSusan continues. SUSAN I'm going to discuss it with J.J. in the morning.A pause. Each is concerned with private thoughts. Susan,relaxed, adds quietly: SUSAN (softly) It's given me a big lift to know that some people want me for myself, not just because I'm my brother's sister. SIDNEY Chickie, I'll have to laugh at that - an attractive girl like you...!Susan ignores his remark, continuing thoughtfully: SUSAN I hope that J.J. really likes Steve, that it isn't an act. SIDNEY (with an indignant edge) Why should he put on an act? Your brother has told PRESIDENTS where to go and what to do!The taxi has pulled to a stop. Susan sits for a momentbefore she remarks. SUSAN The act would be for my sake, not Steve's...Realizing that they have come to their destination, Susangets up, moving out of CAMERA as she disembarks from thetaxi. CAMERA catches a glimpse of apprehension in Sidney'seyes. Quickly, he decides to follow her.EXT. BROADWAYSusan, getting out of the taxi, moves past CAMERA. Sidney,following her, instructs the driver. SIDNEY (to cabbie) Wait for me. I'll be right back.LONGER SHOTSidney moves after the girl, calling: "Susie!"SUSANHearing him, Susan turns back. Sidney walks into shot tojoin her. SIDNEY (lightly) It's not my nature, Susie, but I'll talk to you like an uncle... SUSAN (smiling) But I don't need an uncle, Sidney.They move through the doors.REVERSE ANGLESidney quickly corrects himself, saying earnestly: SIDNEY No, I mean because I admire you - in fact, more than admire you - although that's neither here nor there. (quickly skipping to the important point) Susie, don't sell your brother short. Talk this over with him, I mean - you'll find him a real friend.SUSANSusan looks thoughtful, making no comment.RESUME SIDNEY AND SUSANCarefully (again probing) he prompts her: SIDNEY Any message, in case I see J.J. later?Susan turns away and walks out past CAMERA. Sidney watchesher.SUSANShe looks back at Sidney, quietly firm. SUSAN Yes. Tell him for me that Steve Dallas is the first real man I've ever been in love with...She turns away and walks through the inner door, going downthe corridor towards the elevators in background.RESUME SIDNEYThe sincerity of the girl's manner strikes home to Sidney.Now that her back is turned we see the sharp twinge of painwith which he hears the statement of her feelings foranother man. Angered, he wheels, striding out of the dooronto Broadway.EXT. BROADWAYSidney returns to the cab, instructing the driver: SIDNEY The Twenty One Club.He climbs in and the taxi drives off down Broadway. LAP DISSOLVE TO:EXT. TWENTY ONE CLUB - NIGHTCAMERA HIGH, SHOOTING WEST down 52nd Street, as Sidney's cabpulls up, double parking in front of the 21 Club. Sidneymaneuvers his way between the parked cars towards theentrance and the CAMERA DESCENDS to SHOOT ALONG the courtyardtowards the entrance. We see the figure of Jimmy Weldon andhis girl friend coming out of the Club.CLOSER ANGLE - NIGHTJimmy Weldon is coming out of the Club accompanied by agirl; he is slightly tight. As he steps through the outerdoors, Weldon again spies Sidney on the sidewalk; he stepsto one side of the entrance way.Sidney slips through the congestion, but just as he tries toenter the Club, Weldon's hand shoots out, neatly ambushinghim, pulling him aside into the narrow courtyard. Sidney isinstantly resentful of this manhandling, but has to adjusthimself, assuming a quick smile for the benefit of Weldon. SIDNEY Jimmy! This is a coincidence. I am just going - WELDON (overlapping) Yeah. A coincidence you should run into the very man you've been ducking all week! (to the girl) This is my press agent, Joan.Weldon, jibing at Sidney, plays his remarks off the girl,who is amused; Sidney, of course, is not. SIDNEY (quickly) I tried to reach you twice - WELDON (overlapping) What do you do for that hundred a week. Fall out of bed? SIDNEY Jimmy, I'm on my way inside right now to talk to Hunsecker. I can promise you - WELDON (horsing) Joan, call a cop! We'll arrest this kid for larceny!Sidney flinches, his pride touched. SIDNEY Listen, when your band was playing at Roseland - WELDON (cutting in) That was two months ago. Take your hand out of my pocket, thief!The girl tries to quiet Weldon, who has gone from horsing toloud contempt. THE GIRL Take it easy, Jimmy dear... WELDON (indignantly) Why? It's a dirty job, but I pay clean money for it, don't I?Abruptly Sidney bursts out, giving as good as he has taken: SIDNEY No more you don't! What is this - You're showing off for her? They're supposed to hear you in Korea? WELDON (smirking to the girl) He's intuitive - he knows he's getting fired! SIDNEY If you're funny, James, I'm a pretzel! Drop dead!Weldon, shepherded by the girl, is already on his way acrossthe sidewalk. WELDON It was nice knowing you, Sidney. Not cheap - but nice. Happy unemployment insurance.INT. TWENTY ONE CLUB - NIGHTSidney, entering the Club, threads his way through thecrowded foyer, coming up to CAMERA near the foot of thestaircase. There he meets a Captain who turns to him. CAPTAIN How are you tonight, Mr. Falco? SIDNEY (nodding towards the restaurant) Is "he" inside? CAPTAIN But of course... SIDNEY Alone or surrounded? CAPTAIN A Senator, an Agent and Something - With - Long - Red - Hair.Sidney moves past CAMERA, coming a couple of paces towardsthe door to the restaurant. He pauses.REVERSE ANGLEFrom Sidney's viewpoint. Shooting through the doorway intothe restaurant, we can see the group at the table.(Hunsecker's back is turned to us.) CAMERA PULLS BACK toinclude Sidney in foreground. He decides not to go intorestaurant and turns away out of shot.INT. LOUNGESidney comes round the corner from the foyer and walksthrough the lounge to the door into the alcove where thephone booths are, CAMERA PANNING.PHONE BOOTHSSidney moves briskly past the girl at the switchboard,instructing her: SIDNEY Honey, get me Mr. Hunsecker.The girl reaches for a book of phone numbers, then remembers: OPERATOR He's right inside, Mr. Falco. SIDNEY (from inside the booth) So it isn't Long Distance.As the girl, shrugging, puts through the call, CAMERA movescloser to Sidney in the booth. He hears the connectionmade, speaks at once. SIDNEY (to phone) J.J.? It's me --We are close enough to the instrument to hear the sound of avoice on the other end. Though the words are notdistinguishable, it is quite clear that the speaker is nottalking to the phone. Sidney seems to relax, as if this issomething that happens often. He waits, studying hismanicured fingertips...Presently Sidney hears the voice on the other end becomeclearer. It asks: "Yes?" CAMERA moves closer as Sidney says: SIDNEY J.J., it's Sidney. Can you come outside for one minute?Hunsecker's voice, filtered through the sound of thetelephone, is sharp and tiny; but the words are now veryclear. HUNSECKER (O.S.) Can I come out? No. SIDNEY (tensely) I have to talk to you, alone, J.J., that's why. HUNSECKER (O.S.) You had something to do for me - you didn't do it. SIDNEY Can I come in for a minute? HUNSECKER (O.S.) No. You're dead, son - get yourself buried!There is a click as Hunsecker hangs up. Sidney, moreslowly, also hangs up. Brooding, he comes out of the booth.INT. TWENTY ONE CLUB - LOUNGESidney comes out of the door to the phone booths, walksthrough the lounge to the hallway. He turns towards thedining room.INT. HALLWAYSidney comes to the door into the dining room, CAMERAtracking with him. Here he pauses, looking towards...HUNSECKERFrom Sidney's viewpoint. Hunsecker is seated at a tablewhich is cleverly his habitual position. We see him only insemi-back view, a broad and powerful back. He is listeningto a man who has paused at his table, stooping over Hunseckerto whisper in his ear. As the columnist listens, his handsplay with an omni-present pad and pencil which lie on thedinner table amongst an assortment of envelopes, mimeographedsheets and a telephone. Beyond Hunsecker and the mantalking to him are the SENATOR, the AGENT, and an attractive,if fatuous GIRL. HUNSECKER I'll check it in the morning, Low - thanks.The man leaves; Hunsecker is scribbling a note on the pad.Meanwhile the Senator whispers something to the girl, whogiggles softly.REVERSE ANGLESidney comes across to the table, nervous but deliberate.CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Hunsecker in foreground.Sidney, without accosting him, stands a few feet from thecolumnist's elbow and deliberately lights a cigarette.Hunsecker, barely turning his head, sees him. We have heardof Hunsecker as a monster, but he is evidently in a mildphase of his metabolism, for he seems gentle, sad and quiet,as he turns his gaze casually to the Senator, totallyignoring the young man who stands behind him. HUNSECKER (softly) Harvey, I often wish I were dead and wore a hearing aid...with a simple flick of a switch I could shut out the greedy murmur of little men...SIDNEYA close shot. Sidney shows no reaction to this insult. Hesteps in closer, an Indian fixity in his face. SIDNEY J.J., I need your ear for two minutes...REVERSE ANGLEShooting across Sidney, onto Hunsecker. J.J. turns - butnot to Sidney. He raises his hand in a small gesture whichsummons a passing Captain, who steps into picture at Sidney'selbow. HUNSECKER Mac! I don't want this man at my table... SIDNEY (quickly but quietly interrupting) I have a message from your sister.The Captain is already there. But now Hunsecker's eyes haveswitched to Sidney's face. For the briefest of moments,nothing happens. Then Hunsecker, seeming to relax andignoring the Captain whom he has summoned, turns back tocasual conversation with the Senator as if nothing hadhappened. HUNSECKER Forgive me, Harvey. We were interrupted before -In foreground, Sidney turns to the Captain with a carvedsmile, indicating that Hunsecker's change of topic is to beinterpreted as sanction for Sidney to remain. The Captain,not entirely convinced, retreats. Sidney finds himself achair, places it and takes a seat which is near enough tothe table to establish his presence. During this: SENATOR (who is mildly surprised and faintly embarrassed) Err...the Supreme Court story, I was telling you - Justice Black. HUNSECKER (nodding) Yes, the Justice, that's right. But I think you had it in the column. SIDNEY (smoothly, casually) Last July, the lead item...Sidney's interjection is quietly well-mannered. Hunseckertotally ignores it. The other members of the party are alittle astonished at the interplay. The girl, in particular,is fascinated; she clearly admires Sidney's looks. TheSenator, noting this, glances at Sidney, accepting the point: SENATOR (laughing) And I believe that's precisely where I read it, too. You see, J.J., where I get my reputation for being the best-informed man in Washington. HUNSECKER Now don't kid a kidder.THE SENATOR, THE GIRL, AND THE AGENTThe girl looks again towards Sidney. The Senator again seesthis, addresses Sidney pleasantly. SENATOR I don't think we caught your name, young man.REVERSE ANGLEGroup shot. The Senator in foreground, Sidney beyondHunsecker in background, and the others on edge of shot. SIDNEY Sidney Falco, sir. And, of course, everyone knows and admires you, Senator Walker. SENATOR (humorously) Every four years I get less convinced of that. This young lady is Miss Linda James. (indicates the Girl) She's managed by Manny Davis. (he indicates the Agent)SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERSidney nods pleasantly to the Girl and the Agent. SIDNEY I know Manny Davis. HUNSECKER (quietly) Everyone knows Manny Davis... (as the phone rings on the table) ...except MRS. Manny Davis.Hunsecker is picking up the phone, continuing: HUNSECKER Yes? Go ahead, Billy - shoot...REVERSE ANGLETo intercut with the above. The Senator, the Agent and theGirl watching Hunsecker. The Agent's reaction to Hunsecker'sremark is a sickly smile.RESUME HUNSECKERHe repeats aloud a story which is told him over the telephone. HUNSECKER Uh huh. Sports cars in California are getting smaller and smaller...the other day you were crossing Hollywood Boulevard and you were hit by one...you had to go to the hospital and have it removed... (coolly) You're not following the column: I had it last week.During the speech, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney again.At the end, Sidney looks up in the direction of the Senator. SIDNEY Do you believe in capital punishment, Senator?RESUME REVERSE ANGLEThe Senator, amused, asks: SENATOR Why?RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYSidney glances sidelong at Hunsecker. SIDNEY (pointing to the phone) A man has just been sentenced to death...Hunsecker's face hardens; aware of Sidney's impertinence, hedoes not design to react directly; he turns towards the Agent. HUNSECKER Manny, what exactly are the UNSEEN gifts of this lovely young thing that you manage...?THE AGENT AND THE GIRLThe Agent glances uneasily at the Girl beside him. AGENT Well, she sings a little...you know, sings... GIRL (by rote) Manny's faith in me is simply awe- inspiring, Mr. Hunsecker. Actually, I'm still studying, but -RESUME HUNSECKERHe studies the Girl intently. HUNSECKER What subject?RESUME THE AGENT AND THE GIRL GIRL Singing, of course...straight concert and -RESUME HUNSECKERHunsecker's glance flicks between the Girl and the Senator. HUNSECKER Why "of course"? It might, for instance, be politics...As the Girl betrays herself with a nervous glance at theSenator beside her, CAMERA eases back to include him. TheSenator is unruffled; gravely, he lights a cigar. The Girllaughs. GIRL Me? I mean "I"? Are you kidding, Mr. Hunsecker? With my Jersey City brains?RESUME HUNSECKERAgain his glance links the Girl and the Senator. HUNSECKER The brains may be Jersey City, but the clothes are Trainor-Norell.THE SENATOR, THE AGENT AND THE GIRLThe Girl and the Agent are both nervously uneasy. TheSenator closely examines the tip of his cigar and, withdeliberation, turns towards Sidney. SENATOR Are you an actor, Mr. Falco? GIRL (supporting the change of subject) That's what I was thinking. Are you, Mr. Falco?SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERHunsecker, for the first time, half-turns in Sidney'sdirection, amused. HUNSECKER How did you guess it, Miss James?RESUME THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATORThey all look at Sidney. GIRL He's so pretty, that's how.RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERSidney bitterly resents the adjective, but contrives to hidethe fact; he smiles, gracefully accepting the compliment.Hunsecker (who knows what Sidney feels) is pleased; he turnstowards Sidney expansively. HUNSECKER Mr. Falco, let it be said at once, is a man of FORTY faces, not one, none too pretty and ALL deceptive. See that grin? It's the charming street urchin's face. It's part of his "helpless" act - he throws himself on your mercy. I skip the pleading nervous bit that sometimes blends over into bluster. The moist grateful eye is a favorite face with him - it frequently ties in with the act of boyish candor: he's talking straight from the heart, get it? He's got about half-a-dozen faces for the ladies, but the real cut one to me is the quick dependable chap - nothing he won't do for you in a pinch. At least, so he says! Tonight Mr. Falco, whom I did not invite to sit at this table, is about to show in his last and most pitiful role: pale face with tongue hanging out. In brief, gentlemen and Jersey Lilly, the boy sitting with us is a hungry press agent and fully up to all the tricks of his very slimy trade!Hunsecker has started his speech lightly, but it has builtup to enough cold contempt and feeling to embarrass andintimidate the others at the table. In conclusion,Hunsecker, his eyes on Sidney, picks up a cigarette andwaits expectantly... HUNSECKER (quietly) Match me, Sidney... SIDNEY (coolly) Not just this minute, J.J....Amused, Hunsecker lights his own cigarette, turns towards aman who comes up to the table.HUNSECKERA single close up, to intercut with the above.SIDNEYA matching single; Sidney's reaction to Hunsecker and to theothers at the table.THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATORTo intercut with the above; their reactions of embarrassment.GROUP SHOTA florid MAN comes up to the table, obviously anxious tocatch Hunsecker's attention. Hunsecker, in the act oflighting, his own cigarette, scarcely looks at the man as hedismisses him: HUNSECKER I know - that loafer of yours opens at the Latin Quarter next week. (more sharply) Say goodbye, Lester!The florid man retreats. To cover the embarrassment, theSenator makes a sally in Sidney's direction. SENATOR May I ask a naive question, Mr. Falco? Exactly how does a press agent work...?SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERSidney doesn't answer. HUNSECKER Why don't you answer the man, Sidalee? He's trying to take you off the hook. SIDNEY (to the Senator) You just had a good example of it. A press agent eats a columnists dirt and is expected to call it manna.RESUME THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATOR GIRL What's manna?RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYHunsecker glances spitefully at the Girl. HUNSECKER Heaven dust.RESUME THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATORThe Senator continues to Sidney: SENATOR But don't you help columnists by furnishing them with items?RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERSidney leans forward, indicating to the Senator some of theitems of paper that litter the table in front of Hunsecker;these are both handwritten notes and mimeograph sheets,scraps of assorted items from professional and amateuragents who supply the columnist. Sidney fingers some of them. SIDNEY Sure, columnists can't get along without us. Only our good and great friend, J.J., forgets to mention that. We furnish him with items -Sidney lifts a mimeographed sheet, as an example. HUNSECKER What, some cheap, gruesome gags? SIDNEY (to Hunsecker now) You print them, don't you? HUNSECKER Yes, with your clients' names attached. That's the only reason those poor slobs pay you - to see their names in my column all over the world! Now, as I make it out, you're doing ME a favor! SIDNEY I didn't say that, J.J. HUNSECKER The day that I can't get along without press agents' handouts, I'll close up shop, lock, stock and barrel and move to Alaska.THE AGENT, THE GIRL AND THE SENATORThe Agent makes the mistake of trying to agree with Hunsecker. AGENT (nodding) Sweep out my igloo, here I come.CAMERA pulls back as Hunsecker leans forward across thetable. He vents upon the unfortunate Agent some of theannoyance prompted by Sidney's impertinence. HUNSECKER (to the Agent) Look, Manny, you rode in here on the Senator's shirt tails, so shut your mouth!The Senator doesn't like this treatment of others and hismanner and face show it. SENATOR (slowly) Now, come, J.J., that's a little too harsh. Anyone seems fair game for you tonight. HUNSECKER (not as harsh, but -) This man is not for you, Harvey, and you shouldn't be seen with him in public. Because that's another part of a press agents life - he digs up scandal among prominent men and shovels it thin among the columnists who give him space.SENATORHe finds Hunsecker's manner disturbing, but addresses himfrontally. SENATOR There is some allusion here that escapes me...HUNSECKER HUNSECKER (an edge of threat) We're friends, Harvey - we go as far back as when you were a fresh kid Congressman, don't we?RESUME SENATOR SENATOR Why does everything you say sound like a threat?RESUME HUNSECKERHe leans back, speaking more quietly, enjoying himself. HUNSECKER Maybe it's a mannerism - because I don't threaten friends, Harvey. But why furnish your enemies with ammunition? You're a family man. Someday, with God willing, you may wanna be President. Now here you are, Harvey, out in the open where any hep person knows that this one...AGENTHunsecker leans into shot pointing directly at the Agent. HUNSECKER (continuing) ...is toting THAT one...Hunsecker points to the Girl and the CAMERA makes a slightcrab movement to include the Girl as Hunsecker points inturn to her. HUNSECKER (continuing) ...around for you...Another CAMERA movement. Now Hunsecker is directlychallenging the Senator.RESUME HUNSECKERHe smiles disarmingly. HUNSECKER (continuing) ...Are we kids or what?...Hunsecker rises.GROUP SHOTAs Hunsecker stands up, Sidney follows suit. The Agent,very nervous, gets to his feet and the Girl does likewise.The Senator, whose face is sober, also rises from the table. HUNSECKER (to the Senator, affably) Next time you come up, you might join me at my TV show.With Sidney making way for him, Hunsecker walks round theend of the table to the Senator. The Senator faces Hunseckersolemnly. SENATOR (quietly and cautiously) Thank you, J.J., for what I consider sound advice.Hunsecker matches the Senator's solemnity. HUNSECKER (deadpan) Go, Thou, and sin no more.Hunsecker moves out of shot. Sidney murmurs a "pleased tomeet you" to the Senator; then he follows Hunsecker. TheSenator remains looking after Hunsecker. Behind him, theAgent and the Girl, watch him apprehensively. The Senator,his face now showing the traces of guilt which he did notreveal to Hunsecker, seems unwilling to turn back to facethem.ON THE WAY TO THE FOYERHunsecker and Sidney. Hunsecker addresses the Captain onhis way out of the restaurant. HUNSECKER Mac, don't let the Senator pay that check... CAPTAIN I'll take care of it, Mr. Hunsecker.CAMERA tracks with Hunsecker and Sidney as they move outtowards the hat check stand. HUNSECKER (murmuring) President! My big toe would make a better President!By now they are at the coatroom, Hunsecker smiling. ATTENDANT Mr. Hunsecker's coat, Joe. HUNSECKER Find me a good one, Joe.He accepts the proferred coat as he moves past CAMERA.LONGER SHOT - NIGHTThe Doorman on the sidewalk has noticed Hunsecker, almostbefore the columnist has appeared. The Doorman wheels,snapping his fingers and signaling towards the car parkattendant, who can be seen at some distance in the backgroundunder the lights of the Kinney Car Park. The attendant isseen to react with alacrity, running into the Park.HUNSECKERPutting on his overcoat, he addresses another of the Captainswho has escorted him out of the Club. HUNSECKER Dan, anyone calls, tell 'em I'll be at the Morocco, maybe the Embers. DAN Very good, Mr. Hunsecker.Sidney catches up with Hunsecker as he moves out onto thesidewalk. HUNSECKER Where's your coat, Sidalee? Saving tips?Sidney thinks of an impertinent reply, decides not to bedrawn and says nothing. HUNSECKER (to Sidney) My curiosity is killing me; what are you so rambunctious about tonight?Sidney again does not answer; this time he points across thestreet... SIDNEY There's your fat friend.LONGER SHOT - POLICE CAR - NIGHTThe car is framed in foreground; We can read the sign POLICEattached to the visor. Two men in plain-clothes, detectives,are in the front seats. The man nearest is HARRY KELLO.Wanting to look like a prosperous business man, Kello lookssoft, fat, mild and well-barbered; but he is dangerous; heknows it and enjoys it. With "big shots" he is playful andkidding, always says just enough, not too much. He is veryrelaxed, and mild in manner, but underneath there is notonly an animal energy, but a feral pressing at you. Hisvoice is on the hoarse side. He measures situationsautomatically and instantly.The police radio is chattering. Also in evidence is thetelephone, the radio link with headquarters. The detectiveat the wheel nudges Kello, pointing across the street.Kello gets out of the car and moves to meet the columnist. HUNSECKER (as he approaches) Hello, Harry. KELLO (cheerfully) Bonna sera, commendatore. Come sta?Sidney follows a couple of paces behind Hunsecker; he is inno hurry to meet the detective, whom he clearly dislikes. HUNSECKER (turning to Sidney) You see, Sidalee, that shows that Lt. Kello likes your people.REVERSE ON KELLOKello offers his hand to Hunsecker. KELLO It's my Brooklyn background, J.J. I'm good on Yiddish, too.Hunsecker accepting the handshake, winces with pretendedpain at what is clearly an over-enthusiastic grip. HUNSECKER Harry, am I supposed to say "uncle"?Kello laughs, releases the grip; Hunsecker strolls past himstoops to lean into the car listening to the police calls onthe radio. HUNSECKER Anything fit to print, tonight? (to the policeman in the car) Hello, Phil. How're the kids.The detective inside the car answers, respectfully. PHIL Fine, Mr. Hunsecker. HUNSECKER Any news fit to print tonight? KELLO (joining Hunsecker) I just checked "downtown". Quiet everywhere tonight. HUNSECKER Incidentally, what happened to that doll? - You gave me the item last night. Still alive? KELLO Yeah. At Bellevue. Still hanging on. But they still don't know if she was pushed. HUNSECKER She mighta jumped. Love suicide? (to the policeman in the car) Check it for me, Phil...it's a real heart throb.While Phil lifts the radio phone, calling headquarters,Hunsecker turns back to Kello and Sidney.ANOTHER ANGLEMischievously, Hunsecker nods at Sidney. HUNSECKER (to Kello) Say hello to Sidney Falco. Tickle him - he's been a bad boy tonight. He called you my fat friend. KELLO (mildly) I don't believe it.Instantly aware that J.J. is toying with Sidney, Kellooffers his large hand to Sidney, who refuses it. SIDNEY I know...I know you're the strongest cop in town. KELLO (with a laugh) I call him the boy with the ice cream face! HUNSECKER (laughing) Say, that's good - it's nice - in fact, it's APT, Harry! KELLO (modestly) Yeah, I got eyes. I put things together. HUNSECKER I remember ONCE when you didn't quite "put things together". Boy! Was the Mayor mad!The memory of something unpleasant clouds Kello's face. KELLO Citizens committees! I didn't mean to hit the boy that hard. Yeah, that's when a feller needed a friend and I won't forget his initials, J.J.The policeman in the car sticks his head out of the window. PHIL (to Hunsecker) She died twenty minutes ago, Mr. Hunsecker. They're still investigating. HUNSECKER (shaking his head with total dismissal) That's show business. Thanks, Phil. (to Kello) See you.ANOTHER ANGLE - 52ND STREET - NIGHTKello gets into the police car. KELLO (as he does so) Hasta La Vista, J.J. Hasta Luego.ANOTHER ANGLE - 52ND ST. - NIGHTThe car moves off eastward. Sidney and Hunsecker walkwestward. Sidney, falling into step with Hunsecker, glancesback at the departing police car. SIDNEY Spahish...that must show he likes "spigs", too. HUNSECKER I like Harry, but I can't deny he sweats a little.CAMERA now SHOOTS down 52nd Street. Hunsecker, back toCAMERA, studies the evening, hearing the sound of a screechof female laughter from one of the groups in the distance.A drunk is being thrown out of one of the strip tease joints. HUNSECKER I love this dirty town.Amused, Hunsecker turns back; he signals across the streetto the car park, indicating that the big black LincolnContinental should follow as he strolls with Sidney.HUNSECKER. SIDNEY FOLLOWING. HUNSECKER (after a pause) Conjugate me a verb, Sidney. For instance, TO PROMISE!CAMERA TRACKS with them in a CLOSE TWO SHOT. Sidney isalert now. HUNSECKER (continuing) You told me you'd break up that romance - when? SIDNEY (hesitantly) You want something done, J.J., but I doubt if you yourself know what's involved. HUNSECKER (soft and sardonic) I'm a schoolboy - teach me, teach me. SIDNEY (carefully) Why not break it up yourself? You could do it in two minutes flat.Hunsecker pauses, halts. HUNSECKER (harshly) At this late date you need explanations...? Susie's all I got - now that she's growing up, I want my relationship with her to stay at least at par! I don't intend to antagonize her if I don't have to. (starting to walk again) Now, be warned, son - I'll have to blitz you...Sidney follows quickly. SIDNEY Frankly, J.J., I don't think you got the cards to blitz me. HUNSECKER I don't? SIDNEY Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think so... HUNSECKER (turning to eye him) I'll listen one more minute.Sidney steps in front of Hunsecker, blocking his way for amoment. SIDNEY (very rapidly) About a year ago, you asked me to do a favor. It was a thing - well, I never did a thing that dirty in all my life.Hunsecker, totally disinterested in Sidney's problems ofconscience, signals to his car again, walks past Sidney, whocontinues rapidly: SIDNEY Awright, that brings us up to five weeks ago. "Sidney, I got a nasty little problem here." Did I say no? I'm frank to admit - it don't jell as fast as we like... But all of a sudden I CAN'T GET YOU ON THE PHONE NO MORE! WHY?... And why, as of this date, am I frozen out of the column... HUNSECKER (scornfully) Are you finished? SIDNEY (quickly) No, lemme finish. I DON'T LIKE THIS JOB! That boy is dumb only on matinee days - otherwise he's got a head. And Susan, like you said, she's growing up. Two heads. What I mean, we got a slippery, dangerous problem here! HUNSECKER (incisively) Not "we", Sidney, you! SIDNEY (gamely) Correct me if I'm wrong - WE! Because when I'm out on this very slippery limb for you, you have to know what's involved. HUNSECKER (sardonically) Ha! My right hand hasn't seen my left hand for thirty years!Sidney quickly moves into J.J.'s path, desperate to hold hisattention. SIDNEY I'll do it, J.J. - don't get me wrong - in for a penny, in for a pound. I'll see it through, but stop beating me around the head. Let me make a living! HUNSECKER (his mouth tight and mean) What you promised - do it! Don't finagle around. It's later than you think.Hunsecker walks past Sidney, now making for the car at whichthe attendant still waits. SIDNEY (as Hunsecker passes him) Excuse it, but it's later than you think. That boy proposed tonight.HUNSECKERHunsecker is HIT: he stops in his stride; he pauses and heturns slowly to look at Sidney. Lowering, he hesitates,mind clicking... HUNSECKER Susie told you that...?REVERSE ANGLE - FAVORING SIDNEYSidney, his eyes bright, nods. Hunsecker studies Sidney,then: HUNSECKER No wonder you've been so 'feisty' tonight.A pause. HUNSECKER (quietly) Can you deliver?Sidney nods. SIDNEY Uh huh. HUNSECKER When? SIDNEY Tonight. Before you go to bed. The cat is in the bag and the bag is in the river.HUNSECKERExpressionless, he examines Sidney. Then he walks offtoward the car. He tips the attendant, who thanks him, butinstead of getting into the back of the car, he makes asmall authoritative gesture to Nikko (double) to move overso that Hunsecker himself may drive. While Nikko does so,Hunsecker turns back to Sidney, whom the CAMERA now includes. HUNSECKER (quietly) Don't be a two time loser, Sidalee. The sentence could be severe...SIDNEYHe is satisfied.HUNSECKERHunsecker gets into the driver's seat beside Nikko, theJapanese houseboy. CAMERA is CLOSE on Hunsecker who doesnot look back but is clearly aware of the position of Sidneyas he puts the car into gear, revving the engine...SIDNEY - NIGHTThe big car accelerates with impressive power. In doing so,it sends a cloud of fumes and a swirl of dust in Sidney'sdirection. He leaps out of the way, too late. CAMERA MOVEScloser to him as, with anger and ignominy he inspects hisprecious clothing for damage. But, as he looks after thecar, his face hardens into grim humor; he senses that thispetty gesture from Hunsecker is an indication of hisvulnerability, not his strength. As, dusting his coat,Sidney walks away, CAMERA RISES, watching his jaunty figurecross the street in the direction of 51st Street. QUICK LAP DISSOLVE TO:INT. TOOTS SHOR'S RESTAURANTA LONG SHOT looking over the round bar towards the entrance.Sidney comes in through the revolving doors and comes towardCAMERA. His eyes search among the crowd.CLOSER ANGLEREVERSE ANGLE. A CAPTAIN approaches Sidney. CAPTAIN Hello, Sidney. Wanna table? SIDNEY (shaking his head) Just hopping tonight. Leo Bartha been in? CAPTAIN Yeah, having supper with the Mrs. She's over there.The Captain nods towards a booth on the other side of thebar where Mrs. Bartha is sitting alone. Seeing that Barthais not with her, the Captain looks around the bar... CAPTAIN He's somewhere... SIDNEY (interrupting) Thanks, I see him...Sidney is looking back towards the entrance hall, where...BARTHABartha comes forward (from the Men's Room) passing theCaptain and Sidney. Sidney moves to intercept him. SIDNEY Hello, Leo. How goes that Sunday piece on cigarette girls?ANOTHER ANGLEA CLOSE SHOT on Bartha as he turns towards Sidney, stopping. BARTHA (cautiously) Who told you about it?SIDNEYSidney smiles at Bartha, but the threat is clear. SIDNEY The cigarettes girl...Rita. And she took out all her hairpins, too.RESUME BARTHAHe throws a quick glance at his wife in the booth inbackground. CAMERA PULLS BACK as Sidney, who has noted thelook, moves closer to Bartha. SIDNEY I never had the pleasure of meeting your wife. You know what I wonder, Leo? Could you use a hot little item for tomorrow's column?Sidney is pulling out of his pocket a pad on which toscribble the item. But Bartha faces him squarely, speakingsotto voce but with emphasis: BARTHA What is this, blackmail? Beat it!Bartha turns on his heel and turns to walk towards his wifebeyond.SIDNEYSidney's face tightens. After a pause, he makes a decisionand walks towards the booth.BARTHA AND HIS WIFEBartha's wife is reading a tabloid and sipping champagnewhile her husband resumes eating a sandwich. These two areantagonists in a long war. Sidney comes up to the table,repeats: SIDNEY Leo, I've never had the pleasure of meeting your wife...Bartha looks up. What can he do? Begrudgingly: BARTHA Loretta...Sidney Falco... WIFE (chatty) How do you do, Mr. Falco. If you know anything about horses, sit a minute. Help yourself to a glass of this N.Y. State champagne - that's what my husband buys me.Mrs. Bartha pushes the champagne bottle in Sidney's directionas Sidney sits pleasantly; Bartha concentrates on hissandwich. SIDNEY All the imported wines aren't what they're cracked up to be. WIFE Whose side are you on, Mr. Falco, his or mine? SIDNEY Frankly, Mrs. Bartha, I'm a neutral observer for the United Nations.WIFEMrs. Bartha laughs, enjoying his deftness; then: WIFE What's your first name? SIDNEY (over scene) Sidney.Mrs. Bartha turns to concentrate on the names in the racingcolumn of the tabloid. WIFE (searching the column) No horse running tomorrow by that name...BARTHA, WIFE AND SIDNEYAn ANGLE favoring Bartha and Sidney. Bartha glowers at hiswife, resenting the fact that she has permitted Sidney tojoin them. BARTHA You ought to stop this nonsense, Loretta, these two dollar bets. WIFE (cheerfully) It's compensation, Leo, for the marginal life we lead. (to Sidney) Sidney, did you hear the story about the cloak-and-suitor who -- ? BARTHA (sharply interrupting) That's right! Tell him, so I can read it in Hunsecker's column first! WIFE (to Sidney, brightly) Oh, are you a spy for the other side? SIDNEY No, I actually sat down to give Leo an item.produces his pad again, begins to write on it. WIFE Leo, he wants to give you an item - don't be sullen.Bartha notes Sidney's writing. BARTHA (to his wife) Will you mind your own business! WIFE (calmly) Hitler!She returns to her paper, ignoring them, Sidney finishesscribbling the item. SIDNEY Just in case you'd like to print it, Leo. It's a blind - no names mentioned. But for your private information, the guy's name is Dallas.He pushes the item to Bartha, who reads it, briefly.Meanwhile: WIFE (concentrating on the tabloid) There isn't a single name here that gives off vibrations...Bartha pushes the item back towards Sidney. Sidney glancesquickly at Bartha's stony face then, significantly, turnstowards his wife. SIDNEY Anything there with a name like "cigarette girl"?Bartha raises his head, looks squarely at Sidney withcontempt and anger. His wife is unaware of this reaction.Still looking at the paper, she murmurs: WIFE MMmmmm..."cigarette girl"... No, no horse with a name like that...Sidney pushes the item back towards Bartha.WIFEMrs. Bartha's attention is attracted by Sidney's gesture.She looks up, made aware of this strange by-play.BARTHA AND SIDNEYA CLOSE TWO SHOT. Sidney waits; Bartha is white-lipped, butpushes the item back again: BARTHA I don't print blind items.RESUME WIFEShe looks from Sidney to her husband and back. WIFE What is this, chess or checkers...?RESUME BARTHA, MRS. BARTHA AND SIDNEYThe THREE SHOT favoring Bartha and Sidney. Both Sidney andBartha are now aware of Mrs. Bartha's curiosity. SIDNEY (pointedly) Neither does Hunsecker. (fractional pause) He likes to use the real names...A moment of chill silence. Then Bartha gets to his feet,signals for a waiter. As Sidney rises also: WIFE Where are we running? What am I missing here? BARTHA Waiter, the check. (to wife) This man is trying to hold a gun to my head! WIFE (abruptly) That's the horse! Shotgun - Shotgun in the fifth!She quickly studies her newspaper again. As quickly, Barthaleans across the table and snatches it out of her hands. Indoing so, he upsets the glass of champagne, which containsonly a few drops.SIDNEY AND BARTHABartha turns challengingly to Sidney. BARTHA (sternly) What do you want to tell my wife, Sidney...?WIFEShe is brushing her lap with her napkin. WIFE (indignantly) He wants to tell me that you poured champagne all over my lap.RESUME BARTHA AND SIDNEYBartha ignores her, again challenges Sidney. BARTHA Go on, tell her, I'm waiting! SIDNEY (flustered) What are you talking about? Are you nuts or what?The Waiter arrives in picture beside them, puts the check onthe table and goes. Bartha picks it up.RESUME WIFEStill mopping her dress with her napkin, she waits for herhusband to speak.BARTHAHe glances unhappily at his wife. BARTHA Lorry, I can't let this man blackmail me...MRS. BARTHA, BARTHA AND SIDNEYA THREE SHOT favoring Mrs. Bartha, her husband and Sidney inforeground. WIFE Blackmail...?Sidney decides to retreat. He turns, starts to go. ButBartha blocks his way, holding Sidney and explaining to theWife. BARTHA He wants me to print a dirty smear item for keeping his mouth shutA momentarily pause. Then: WIFE About what?RESUME BARTHAHe is uneasy, ashamed of himself. BARTHA Foolishly, Lorry, and I hope you'll understand... this cigarette girl...I was kidding around with her...this girl, I mean...I was kidding around and she took it seriously. It was a case of bad judgment, Lorry, bad taste...and I'm just sorry, Lorry, that's all...RESUME WIFEShe says nothing.RESUME BARTHA, SIDNEY AND MRS. BARTHAThe ANGLE favoring Bartha and Sidney, Mrs. Bartha inforeground. Bartha now turns on Sidney. BARTHA Your friend Hunsecker - you can tell him for me - he's a disgrace to his profession. Never mind my bilious private life - I print a decent, responsible column - that's the way it stays! Your man - there's nothing he won't print if it satisfies his vanity or his spite! He'll use any spice to pepper up his daily garbage! Tell him I said so and that, like yourself, he's got the morals of a guinea pig and the scruples of a gangster!Sidney tries to brazen it out, sneering: SIDNEY What do I do now? Whistle "The Stars and Stripes Forever?"Mrs. Bartha slides along the seat, reaching for her fur.MRS. BARTHACAMERA PULLS BACK with her as she collects her belongings,slides out between the tables and comes forward, passingSidney to her husband. WIFE (lightly) What you do now, Mr. Falco, is crow like a hen - you have just laid an egg.She presents her fur to her husband, and turns her back,inviting him to put it around her shoulders.BARTHA AND WIFEANOTHER ANGLE, favoring Bartha. He has not fully understoodthe significance of his wife's gesture. He studies her.She confirms his hopes as she adds: WIFE Leo, this is one of the cleanest things I've seen you do in years...With the fur around her shoulders, she turns and takes herhusband's arm with some pride. They walk away. CAMERAERASES BACK to include Sidney. He is angry at himself -more for the failure of his efforts at blackmail than anysense of shame at the attempt.OTIS ELWELLA MEDIUM LONG SHOT. At a booth on the other side of the barsits a dapper gentleman with a twinkle of malice in his eyes.He has been watching the altercation with keen interest andsatisfaction. Elwell gives some instructions to a waiterwho is serving him with drinks, pointing towards Sidney.SIDNEYSidney's face shows a burning resentment. He glances abouthim to see how much of the embarrassing scene has beenobserved. As he moves away, the waiter walks into shot,addressing him.WAITERA waiter approaches Sidney. He has a message. WAITER Otis Elwell wants to see you, Sidney.The waiter nods towards the other side of the circular bar.Sidney, his humiliation and rage still burning, looks offtowards...OTIS ELWELLFrom Sidney's viewpoint. Elwell beckons.SIDNEYHe comes round the circular bar. He shows no eagerness tojoin Elwell, but approaches the table. Elwell makes agesture, inviting Sidney to sit. Sidney doesn't accept it. ELWELL (pleasantly) I see Bartha gave you cold tongue for supper. (as Sidney starts to leave) Hey, wait a minute! SIDNEY (hesitating) I'm late for a date with a dame.Then, returning, he leans over the table addressing Elwellwith quiet anger. SIDNEY Otis, if you're trying to blow this brawl into an item for your column - forget it!REVERSE ANGLEAcross Sidney and Elwell. Elwell is quietly enjoyingSidney's display of hurt dignity. ELWELL (affably) How is dear old J.J. by the way? SIDNEY (his anger relapsing) Call him up and ask - he might drop dead with shock. ELWELL (lightly) If it were that easy, you wouldn't find an empty phone booth for the next two hours...SIDNEYA CLOSE SHOT. While Elwell continues, he is not looking atSidney. Elwell's expression of dislike of Hunsecker is notoveremphatic; but Sidney senses, nevertheless, that it isvery real - and this gives him a new idea. ELWELL (continuing over scene) ...Talk of a wake! - they'd club each other to cater the affair for free!RESUME ELWELL AND SIDNEYElwell looks up at Sidney as he continues. ELWELL (happily) By the way, did I hear something about J.J. giving you the flit gun treatment - he shut you out of the column. (amused) Why?REVERSE ANGLESidney has rapidly resumed his manner of resentment (inorder to exploit Elwell's dislike of Hunsecker). SIDNEY You don't know that lunatic yet? Whims - egotistic whims! Like the gag - when you got him for a friend, you don't need an enemy! (a pause, then:) That's what the fight with Bartha was about. "Leo", I says, "Hunsecker froze me out. So I'm eating humble pie this month - please print me an item." ELWELL (pleased) And, instead, he printed his heel in your face? SIDNEY (morose) I see you're full of human feelings...ELWELLHe has lost interest in Sidney. ELWELL (with a shrug) Like most of the human race, Sidney, I'm bored. I'd go a mile for a chuckle...Elwell's voice fades: his attention has been caught by...REVERSE ANGLE...three people are passing the table, squeezing their waypast; a man with two very fetching young women. Elwell'seyes are riveted to the anatomy that is temptingly displayed. SIDNEY (noting Elwell's preoccupation) ...and two miles for a pretty girl...?ELWELLHe is unembarrassed at Sidney's all-too-accurate estimate. ELWELL (lightly) Three...even four...Elwell turns back towards the papers on his table, a zippereddocument case and some publications among which a columnistmight search for scandal; among these is a magazine ofsemipornographic nature. ELWELL (continuing, casually) Then you're really washed up with Hunsecker...?REVERSE ANGLEThe nature of Elwell's reading tastes is also not lost onSidney. With his eyes glancing at the magazine, Sidney nowaccepts the original offer to sit down. He produces theslip of paper that Bartha rejected, offering it asillustration. SIDNEY This is how much I'm washed with J.J....As Elwell reads, Sidney continues giving a passing scrutiny -apparently casual - to a picture of a girl on the magazinecover. SIDNEY Look, Otis, I make no brief for my bilious private life, but he's got the morals of a guinea pig and the scruples of a gangster.Elwell shows no undue enthusiasm for the item. ELWELL (dryly) A fine, fat dirty item. (offering it back to Sidney) Who's it about?But Sidney doesn't take the paper back; he explains: SIDNEY A kid named Dallas, who runs a dinky jazz quintet. (he leans closer) He keeps company with J.J.'s screwball sister...ELWELLThis does get a reaction, a flicker of genuine interest.Elwell reads the item for a second time.SIDNEY AND ELWELLWatching Elwell read, Sidney encourages: SIDNEY It's a real goody if, like me, you wanna clobber J.J.!Now Elwell lays the item down in front of him. Clearly, heis considering it. Sidney prompts again. SIDNEY He's got his TV tomorrow. He'd read it just before rehearsals.Elwell nods. But he is still reluctant. ELWELL (cautiously) Mmm. Trouble is I can't think of any good reason why I should print anything you give me. I can't even think of a bad reason.SIDNEYSidney drops his eyes to the magazine once more. He fingersit in a preoccupied but significant way. SIDNEY (gently) Suppose I introduce you to a lovely reason, Otis. One that's good and bad...and available?ELWELLHis eyes go from the magazine to Sidney; he gets the pointalright. ELWELL I'm not an unreasonable man...Elwell reaches for the slip of paper once more.SIDNEY AND ELWELLIn picking it up, Elwell clearly implies his readiness toaccept the item - on conditions. Sidney, in his turn, getsthis point. He turns towards the passing waiter. SIDNEY Waiter! The check. LAP DISSOLVE TO:INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - NIGHTRita is in the bedroom. She appears to have some familiarityto the premises... She hears the doorbell. She makes swiftadjustment to her appearance and takes a swift gulp of adrink as she carries it through to answer the door.SIDNEY'S OFFICEThe outer room is lit only by one of the lamps on the desk.Rita crosses and goes to the door. Sidney's shadow can beseen through the frosted glass. At the door, Rita opens itslowly and with a seductive manner. RITA (coyly) Hi!Sidney steps into the room. Rita begins to close the doorprior to stepping into his embrace. Sidney puts one armabout her. But now she reacts to...ANOTHER ANGLEOtis Elwell stands on the landing outside. In mostgentlemanly fashion, he takes off his hat.RITAThis new arrival gets a dismal reaction from the girl. SIDNEY (unembarrassed) Rita, say hello to Otis Elwell. RITA (with no welcome whatsoever) Hello.ANOTHER ANGLEElwell is not unaware of his cool reception. He glances atSidney as he comes into the room. But his manner is suave. ELWELL Friends call me Otis - sometimes Tricky Otis. SIDNEY Otis was outraged when I told him Van Cleve was going to fire you. Tell him not to pay any attention to anything you-know-who says about you-know-what. (to Otis) Right, Otis? ELWELL Right!Elwell sits down on the sette, stretches his limbs, smilesat the girl. Rita still says nothing. Sidney mistakes herattitude for acquiescence. He swallows his drink, sets itdown. SIDNEY I thought you two could talk the whole thing over till I got back.Rita looks at him sharply. RITA Back? SIDNEY One of those business meetings, honey - always coming up in the middle of the night.He grins at Rita. She doesn't respond. Turning, she goesswiftly through the door into the bedroom. RITA (sharply) Hold on. You can drop me off on your way...Emphasizing the asperity in her voice, she closes the doorbehind her.ANOTHER ANGLEElwell looks at Sidney; Sidney looks at Elwell. Elwell getsup slowly from the settee. ELWELL (amused by acid) Consternation reigns...Sidney is uncomfortable, not sure how Elwell is taking therejection. Elwell glances at his wristwatch, lays down hisdrink. SIDNEY (quickly) Now, Otis...Elwell shrugs, remarks pleasantly but with significance: ELWELL I hate J.J. -- but not that much at this moment... SIDNEY Give me a chance --He goes into the bedroom, closing the door after him.INT. BEDROOMRita is in a flurry of indignation. Sitting on the bed, sheis fastening one high-heeled shoe. Sidney stands glaring ather. SIDNEY Don't you know who that man is? RITA (bitingly) Yeah. Otis Elwell. The columnist. SIDNEY (nodding with emphasis) Yeah! RITA (aggressively) And he's a perfect stranger to me. SIDNEY (explosively) So take five minutes! Get acquainted! He's an important man - he's lonely - don't be dumb!Rita, who one shoe on, has begun to search for the other. RITA What do you want all of a sudden - Lady Godiva...? Where's my other shoe? SIDNEY What kind of an act is this?Rita jumps to her feet. Her righteous indignation ishandicapped by the lop-sided stance caused by the lack ofone shoe. RITA Don't you think I have any feelings? What am I? A bowl of fruit? A tangerine that peels in a minute? SIDNEY (caustic) I beg your pardon! I turn myself inside out to help you and now I'm a heavy. (stooping swiftly as he discovers her shoe) Here's your shoe, there's your coat, that's the door!Contemptuously he thrusts the coat and the shoe into herarms. The positive force of his manner gives the girl pause.There is a silence. Rita searches for words to explain theoffense to her sensibilities. RITA Sidney...I...I don't do this sort of thing... SIDNEY What sort of thing? RITA (emphatic) This sort of thing! SIDNEY (as emphatic) Listen, you need him for a favor, don't you! And so do I! I need his column--tonight. (then) Didn't you ask me to do something about your job? Don't you have a kid in Military School?A pause. Sidney has struck brutally home. Rita's lower liptrembles. RITA You're a snake, Falco. You're a louse, a real louse.Sidney's manner becomes swiftly sympathetic - but stillurgent. SIDNEY (persuasively) Honey - he's going to help you! You want to lose your job?Rita begins to waver, her moral indignation losing groundbefore Sidney's reminders of her dire necessity. RITA (remonstrating) A girl needs a little romancing before she - SIDNEY (cutting in) Next time I'll call in a guy to paint silver stars on the ceiling! RITA (in a small voice) What would you think of me if - SIDNEY (cutting in to reassure her) Nothing I didn't think of you before. RITA (dryly, with significance) - that's what I mean!This attempt at humor signals to Sidney that he has broughther round. He comes to her, pats her in an encouragingmanner - to which she does not respond.He turns to the door, and picks up the glasses she has setdown on the table behind it. SIDNEY (as he opens the door) How many snorts does it take to put you in that Tropical Island Mood?Sidney goes out.SIDNEY'S OFFICEElwell overhears the last remark and as Sidney passes him,he winks. While Sidney pours another drink, Elwell facesthe doorway. Rita comes into it, stands on the threshold.She is still far from enthusiastic. ELWELL (an inspiration) Havana! That's where we met!Rita shakes her head morosely. Sidney comes and puts astiff drink into her hand. Elwell raises the glass toastingthe girl, encouraging her to drink. Rita responds dimly. RITA (to Otis) Here's mud in your column!Sidney laughs, more from relief than from the joke. SIDNEY Blessings on thee, the both...well... Gotta run now. See you two kids later! ELWELL (lightly) Hurry back.At the door Sidney takes cheerful leave of them. SIDNEY Don't do anything I wouldn't do. That gives you lots of leeway.HALLWAY OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S APARTMENTClosing the door, Sidney seems pleased with himself. Hegoes swiftly down the stairs.INT. SIDNEY'S OFFICERita remains on the threshold of the doorway between the tworooms. There is an uncomfortable silence. Elwell carriesit off by coming to the girl, offering her a cigarette. Sheaccepts it. Elwell studies her, smiling affectionately.Rita meets his eyes, avoids them again, then quietly offersthe information: RITA Palm Springs. Two years ago.Elwell begins to laugh. Whatever the memory, it seems toamuse him vastly because he continues to laugh. ELWELL (delighted) That's right!Rita drinks. She adds glumly: RITA Don't tell Sidney.Elwell continues to laugh as we... CUT TO:ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHTShooting east on 46th Street walks Sidney, coming out of theentrance of his apartment, towards CAMERA. He is pleasedwith himself, satisfied with his ingenuity in dealing withRita and Bartha.The streets behind him are dark and empty (it is about 3:00in the morning). CAMERA moves with Sidney as he stepsbriskly into the orange juice stand and lifts the receiverfrom the pay telephone. There are no other customers at thecounter, but the man behind is squeezing orange halves forthe day ahead, piling up a mountain of empties some of whichfall at Sidney's feet.EXT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHTCAMERA shoots up at the penthouse on the roof of the BrillBldg. The Budweiser sign is extinguished, a black silhouetteagainst the sky. A light burns in the window of Hunsecker'sapartment.INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHTThe ringing of the telephone is heard in the big room - animpressively furnished apartment which has a decor indicatingthat the owner thinks of himself in epic terms.CAMERA moves to discover Hunsecker in robe and pajamas,tapping at his typewriter. Taking his leisurely time, hepicks up the phone and eventually answers it. HUNSECKER (to phone) Yes...? You sound happy, Sidney. Why should you be happy when I'm not? (then) I'll see the papers when I get up. How do you spell Picasso, the French painter? (languidly writes down Picasso on his scratch pad, answering a query, dryly) It's an item - I hear he goes out with three-eyed girls.ORANGE JUICE STAND - NIGHTCAMERA shoots past Sidney at the phone toward Broadway,which is now deserted. A street-flushing truck goes by,moving through the dead city. SIDNEY (to phone) It would be nice if you mentioned R-O-B-A-R-D - Robard's jazz joint -- it's his 20th anniversary. Don't begrudge it to me, J.J. - I owe him lots of favors. (glancing toward the attendant to see that he has not overheard) I think you understand, don't you, that the Dallas skull is badly dented? Oh, real bad... starting today, you can play marbles with his eyeballs. (even coquetting) Don't hold out on me, J.J., mention Robard. R.O. - (hangs up and walks to street)HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHTHunsecker is writing Robard's name on his pad, but he saysinto the phone: HUNSECKER We shall see what we shall see... (lazily) And don't ever use this apartment phone again; I have a nervous sister.He cradles the phone, looks at it for a moment, switches hiseyes and then physically follows them, rising to strolltowards the glass doors onto the terrace. He moves out andturns aside to look in at the adjoining window, whichbelongs to Susan's bedroom.INT. SUSAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHTCAMERA shoots across Susan in foreground; she is asleep, atired, helpless, sweet kid. The figure of her brother isseen - a dark shape on the terrace outside. He moves awayacross the terrace.EXT. TERRACE - NIGHTHunsecker turns from the window. CAMERA is close on hisbrooding face. CAMERA tracks with him as he crosses towardsthe parapet. At this height there is a wind which blows hishair and the movement of the camera emphasizes a remarkablevista of the New York skyline. The buildings are now dark,only a few of the electric signs are left on all night.CAMERA comes to rest looking over Hunsecker's shoulder; ittilts downward to a view of Broadway below, Duffy Square inthe distance.HUNSECKER - NIGHTA close-up; Hunsecker is looking down on his "kingdom". Butthere is little love in the man's face, only authoritarianpower.EXT. FROM THE TERRACE - NIGHTFrom Hunsecker's viewpoint. The streets empty, except foran occasional passing taxi. The street flushing truck comesup Broadway from Duffy Square... LAP DISSOLVE THROUGH TO:EXT. FROM THE TERRACE - DAYThe identical camera set-up. Through the dissolve the lightchanges from night to day; Broadway magically becomes aroaring stream of traffic.EXT. GLOBE BUILDING - DAYIn foreground a NEWS VENDOR. Sidney comes out of the exitof a subway, reaching for his pocket as he approaches thenews vendor who offers him a paper. NEWS VENDOR The Globe? SIDNEY (shaking his head) Gimme The Record.Sidney buys and opens the paper. CAMERA MOVES closer toshoot over his shoulder. We see the gossip column whichbears a photograph of Otis Elwell at the top. Smirking withsatisfaction, Sidney turns away from the CAMERA and throwsthe paper into a trash basket before he disappears into theimpressive entrance of a large office building. The signabove the doorway reads: THE NEW YORK GLOBE. QUICK DISSOLVE TO:INT. GLOBE BUILDINGMary, Hunsecker's secretary, occupies a cubicle which isseparated form the rest of the newsroom by a partition.From the big room beyond, comes the hum and chatter of a bignewspaper. The walls of the urgent murmur of the staff of abig newspaper. The walls of Mary's cubicle are covered withphotographs; filing cabinets are piled high with unopenedmail; two wire service teletype machines click desultorily.Mary is plain but attractive, past 30, a level-headed womanwith a sense of integrity. She is on the phone just now,bored with the insistent voice on the other end. Beside heran earnest young LAWYER waits with several papers in hand. MARY (to phone) I have no power to retract, Mr. Cummings... I'm only Mr. Hunsecker's secretary. No. Nor can I agree that can retraction is necessary. Thank you for calling.Sidney has come through the newsroom in background. Hepauses tactfully, seeing Mary occupied with the lawyer. LAWYER (huffily) I fail to see what's amusing about these papers. MARY I'll get the boss to sign them. LAWYER (giving her the papers) They're important. MARY You've said that six times - that's why I'm smiling.As the disgruntled lawyer leaves, Sidney comes in, wearinghis most winning smile. With a glance after the lawyer,making sure that he is not observed, Sidney greets Mary,assuming a brogue: SIDNEY Hello, Mary, me darlin' and phwat are ye up to today?Sidney's hand caresses her shoulder with a gesture whichindicates a certain intimacy between them. MARY That's a question I usually like to ask YOU. Your secretary phoned. SIDNEY What about? MARY (shrugging) Something about a Frank D'Angelo trying to reach you...Sidney reaches for the phone. As he does so, Mary hesitatesand glances at a copy of The Record which lies on the deskopen at Otis Elwell's column. She picks it up. MARY (continuing) Is that the man who manages Susie's boyfriend?Sidney murmurs casually, "Yeah. Why?" as he dials. Maryholds up the paper, indicating the item. MARY Have you seen this? In Otis Elwell's column. (reads) "The dreamy marijuana smoke of a lad who heads a highbrow jazz quintet is giving an inelegant odor to that elegant East Side Club where he works. That's no way for a card-holding Party Member to act. Moscow won't like, you naughty boy!"Sidney accepts the paper from Mary, examines the item whilehe talks to Sally on the phone. SIDNEY (into phone) Sally? I got the message. If D'Angelo calls again, tell him I'll be at the office around noon.He hangs up, continuing to read. MARY Could this be that boy? SIDNEY (casually) Dallas? Could be. He doesn't look like a reefer smoker...He discards the paper with a show of disinterest. Marypicks it up again. MARY (looking at The Record again) If this is true, J.J.'s going to hit the ceiling...Sidney moves around behind Mary. His eyes are fixed on aspike which sits on Mary's desk. On it is impaled a proofof Hunsecker's column. Meanwhile, he remarks: SIDNEY Can it be news to you that J.J.'s ceiling needs a plaster job every six weeks?INSERTFrom Sidney's viewpoint, Hunsecker's column. The shot isjust too distant for us to be able to read the print.SIDNEY AND MARYSidney is looking at the column. Mary is concentrated onpapers before her. Without looking up, she is clearly awareof Sidney's efforts to read the proof. MARY (quietly) Sidney, you know that J.J. doesn't like people to look at the column proof in advance...Sidney, caught "in flagrante", laughs. SIDNEY Mary, I'm not "people" - there's Falco blood, sweat and tears in that column.He turns away, changing the subject (apparently). SIDNEY How about dinner tonight?Mary turns to study him. MARY Bribing me again? SIDNEY (uncomfortable under her scrutiny) And why should I bribe the woman who holds most of my heart?Mary is thoughtful. Without malice, in a detached sort ofway, she examines Sidney. MARY You're a real rascal, Sidney. I'd certainly dislike you if I didn't like you. You're an amusing boy, but there isn't a drop of respect in you for anything alive - you're too immersed in the theology of making a fast buck. Not that I don't sometimes feel that you yearn for something better...Sidney finds this analysis hard to take. Again he tries tolaugh his way out of it. SIDNEY (cynical) Mary, don't try to sell me the Brooklyn Bridge. I happen to know it belongs to the Dodgers.Mary, smiling, decides "to let him off the hook". She takesthe spike and the column and passes it across to Sidney'sside of the desk, as she returns briskly to her business. MARY (affably) I don't mind you looking at the proof of the column in advance, as long as J.J. doesn't know. But don't do it like a boy stealing gum from a slot machine.Sidney doesn't like this; but, on the other hand, he doeswant to look at the column. After only a momentary struggle,he picks the column off the spike and reads. SIDNEY Who put this item in about the comic? (reading) "If there's a more hilarious funny man around than Herbie Temple at the Palace, you'll have to pardon us for not catching the name. We were too busy screaming." Does this Temple have a press agent? MARY No. It's one of J.J.'s occasional beau gestes. Evidently the fellow's funny, so he gave him a plug.He goes to the door, grinning. SIDNEY What's your favorite ribbon to go around your favorite chocolates? MARY Let's wait till Christmas - it's more legitimate then.She looks after Sidney, thinks about him for a moment. Thenshe types.EXT. PALACE THEATRE - DAYSidney comes down 47th Street from Broadway, making for thestage door entrance of the Palace theatre. He walksconfidently into the alleyway, paying no attention to theold doorman gossiping with the shoeshine boy at the chairsnext to the entrance. The doorman turns, protesting: DOORMAN (calling out) Hey! LAP DISSOLVE TO:Sidney, without halting, looks back towards the Doorman,addressing him with the patronizing manner of a superior. SIDNEY Herbit Temple here yet? DOORMAN Yeah, but you can't come in now! SIDNEY I'm in, Sonny Boy!He is already on his way into doorway.INT. BACKSTAGE OF PALACE THEATREThe movie will soon by finished and the comedian who opensthe stage show is ready and made-up in the wings. He sitswith his agent, (AL EVANS) a small, worried, bespectacledman, who waves an unlighted cigar as big as himself. Theyconverse in loud whispers, talking against the muffled andechoing sound of the film sound track, silhouetted againstthe ghostly, distorted images on the big screen seen at aweird angle behind them. EVANS I didn't waste words, Herbie, take my word. I says, "look, Figo, I'm not selling you a dozen eggs, I'm selling you HERBIE TEMPLE", I says, so don't gimme your lip!The comedian, Herbie Temple, looks up. Sidney comes througha fire-proof door which separates the stage from thecorridors to dressing room. In background two chorus girlsin costume are squeezed into a telephone booth. Sidneyjoins the comedian and the agent; he smiles to the comedian,while he addresses the agent. SIDNEY Hiya, Al!The agent looks from Sidney to Temple, surprised anddispleased. EVANS Since when did you two get acquainted?Sidney has clearly never met Evans; blandly he chooses toregard the agent's remark as an introduction; he offers hishand with generous amiability. SIDNEY How do you do, Mr. Temple...The comic accepts the hand doubtfully. EVANS (uncertain) Delighted. SIDNEY I'm Sidney Falco. TEMPLE (still dubious) Yeah, delighted...Evans stands up, warns the comic. EVANS Watch this guy, Herbie, he's a press agent.Temple's smile congeals. TEMPLE You watch him, Al, I s...s...stutter! SIDNEY (in no way discouraged) Temple, I caught your act the other night and - TEMPLE Did you now? On which bounce? SIDNEY - and I just had to drop by and tell you how great I thought you were. TEMPLE (dryly) Cheers. What time is it, Al? EVANS You got ten minutes. (to Sidney) Hope you don't mind, Falco: we're busy and if -Sidney stands up. SIDNEY No, I don't mind. I'm busy too. TEMPLE (scowling) Good! We're all off to Utica, so excuse me, Mr. Frannis-on-the- Portisan.Sidney moves toward the doorway onto the corridor. Thechorus girls have now vacated the phone booth. SIDNEY But can I ask one impertinent question here? With no criticism intended, because I know, Al, you earn your ten percent, how come you let a sock act like Herbie Temple tip-toe through town without a publicity build...?Smiling wise, Evans shakes his head. EVANS We're not buying it, Falco - no fish today.Sidney presses, as if annoyed. SIDNEY I'm not selling. I'm just curious, that's all.Temple turns away from Sidney, leaving him to Evans. TEMPLE Answer the man, Al, if he asks you a question. Quick, before he thinks up another!Evans moves to Sidney, trying to shepherd him out the way hecame. EVANS Mr. Temple doesn't believe in press agents - does that answer you something?ANOTHER ANGLEEvans makes the mistake of laying a hand on Sidney's elbow.Sidney doesn't like people touching him. He reacts inanger, as we have seen before - fixes a burning eye on Evans. SIDNEY Take your hand off, lump! (more politely, to Temple) No one believes in press agents, Temple, when they make claims they can't perform. I got nothing to sell - I didn't come here to peddle - but if I tell a client that Hunsecker will give him space, it's not just talk!Sidney stops briskly up the stairs into the corridor.Evans, angry, is stalled for a moment of delay action bymention of the magic name of Hunsecker. EVANS (after hesitation) Listen, you bull artist - ! TEMPLE Let him go, Al...SIDNEYBut Sidney has already stepped to the phone booth and isdialing. SIDNEY (to phone) Hello? Mary, let me speak to J.J., please...it's Sidney Falco...REVERSE ANGLEShooting past Sidney in foreground onto Temple and Evansbeyond, they watch him, open-mouthed. Sidney notes theirreaction. SIDNEY (to phone) Tell him it's important...INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENT - DAYGloria is at her desk, bewildered as she speaks into thephone. GLORIA What? Is this Sidney?...RESUME BACKSTAGE OF PALACE THEATRE SIDNEY (to phone) Sure, I'll wait...While doing so, he glances back with disinterest at Evansand Temple. The comedian and the agent exchange looks.Evans is uneasy; he comes up the steps into the corridor toaddress Sidney with a deflated manner. EVANS (hesitant) Look, nobody hired you! We didn't talk any deal, and -With his hand over the mouthpiece, Sidney addresses Evanswith contempt. SIDNEY Relax, lump! I told you I'm not selling fish... (abruptly reverting to the phone) J.J...Sidney!...How are you, sweetheart? (laughing) Yeah... (then seriously) Listen, I know it's late, J.J., but is it too late to add something important to the column? (grinning) No, not a relative, but important...RESUME - GLORIA IN INT. OF SIDNEY'S APARTMENTShaking her head, Gloria places the phone down on the desk,looks at it as it chatters away. She considers returning toher typing, but, worried, picks the phone up again. Sidney'schattering voice is barely audible: "You know Herbie Temple,the comic...? What about him? He's at the Palace and he'sgreat. That's what about him. And you'd do me a big bunnybasket of a favor if you would say it in tomorrow's column.RESUME BACKSTAGE PALACE THEATRETemple and Evans are now staring at Sidney with considerablerespect.REVERSE ANGLEThe comedian and the agent in foreground, Sidney still onthe phone beyond. SIDNEY Yeah, if you got a pencil there I'll suggest a word or two. Uh...uh...The comedian and the agent in foreground, Sidney still onthe phone beyond. SIDNEY (to phone, continuing) If there's a funnier man in the world than Herbie Temple at the Palace...uh...pardon us for not catching the name, we were too busy laughing. No, make that 'screaming'. (then) It's sweet of you, J.J., thanks. Probably see you at Twenty One tonight. No, for supper, late. Right. 'Bye... TEMPLE Speak to this lad, Al, ... to Mr. Falco. SIDNEY See me in my office.He turns and walks away down the corridor. As he vanishes,Temple starts after him.CORRIDORSidney walks off in the direction of the exit -- (not sofast that he can't be overtaken). Temple hurries into thecorridor and comes after him. Evans also follows, thoughnot so eagerly. TEMPLE Wait a minute. (turning back to encourage Evans) Speak to him, Al. (to Sidney, apologetically) Al makes all my deals.Sidney permits himself to be detained. SIDNEY (coolly, looking toward Evans) I don't like a guy that's quick with the hands. (to Temple) Temple, you've been three passes behind for twenty years. This could start you off big - T.V. and anywhere.Evans, not as wholly convinced as the comedian, comes up tojoin them. Temple looks at the agent. TEMPLE And it would cost a pretty penny, huh? SIDNEY (to Evans) You tell him, I stutter! EVANS (shrewdly) Uh...Why don't we wait till tomorrow?Sidney, shrugging, makes a negligent exit. SIDNEY (as he goes) Wait as long as you like - you know where my office is.They look after him. Evans face is cold and suspecting, butTemple's face contains fresh warmth. DISSOLVE TO:STAIRS OUTSIDE SIDNEY'S OFFICE - DAYSidney comes briskly up the stairs. Outside his door hepauses, listens, hearing the murmur of voices inside. Thenhe walks in casually.INT. SIDNEY'S OFFICE - DAYSidney steps in, closing the door. He pretends surprise ashe sees...ANOTHER ANGLE...Steve and D'Angelo waiting for him. Sidney comes intoSHOT. Sally remains at her desk while Steve and D'Angeloare silent, looking at Sidney. SIDNEY (perkily) What is here, a wake?D'Angelo rises from the couch, crossing to Sidney to handhim a copy of the tabloid, The Record. It is folded open atElwell's column. As he passes it to Sidney, D'Angelo markswith his thumbnail an item near the bottom of the column.Sidney takes the paper and reads. (He reads a little tooquickly.) Then he hands it back to D'Angelo.ANOTHER ANGLESteve notes Sidney's too-perfunctory reading. STEVE You read as you run, don't you?Sidney turns on Steve, coldly: SIDNEY It's a habit with me. So now I'm briefed. So what? STEVE (glancing at D'Angelo) Frank thinks I shouldn't have come here - D'ANGELO (a quick correction) Excuse me, Steve. I said namely you shouldn't go around wild, blaming people without justification. STEVE (watchfully, to Sidney) I thought you might have a faint idea of how this item originated.REVERSE ANGLEFavoring Sidney. He pauses. SIDNEY Why me...? STEVE Why not you? SIDNEY That's your idea of logic? I tell the Judge I didn't murder the man - the Judge says, "Why not you?" STEVE Only two men in this town could be responsible for that smear - you or Hunsecker or both. SIDNEY (explosively) Dallas, ask your own manager - he's standing here like a pained wolfhound - Hunsecker and Elwell are enemies to the knife. So how do you get him doing J.J. a favor? STEVE (quickly) It is a favor, isn't it? SIDNEY (as quickly) According to you, yeah. (continuing rapidly and with heat) Dallas, your mouth is as big as a basket and twice as empty! I don't like you, comma, but neither do I go along with this column saying you smoke marijuana and belong with the Reds. Also, since we're talking repulsive, J.J. won't like this for two cents! Don't give me that look, Dallas - J.J. believes in fair play. And secondly, this could splatter his sister with rotten egg by implication - your her boyfriend!RESUME REVERSE ANGLESidney's manner is a little too vigorous. (In adopting anaggressive tone, he is really trying to needle Steve.)Steve, though on the verge of losing his temper, is sharpenough to notice the point: STEVE You're talking very fast. SIDNEY (expostulating) Well, I'll tell you what - excuse me for breathing, will ya? (wheeling to Sally) How do you like it? He comes to my office and -D'ANGELOSensing the danger, D'Angelo moves forward soothinglybetween them. D'ANGELO Boys, this gets nobody nowhere - you're over excited, Steve and - STEVE (sharply) Don't apologize for me, Frank! D'ANGELO ...excited with good reason, I wanted to say. (to Sidney) Because this endangers the future of the whole quintet... SIDNEY (lightly) Should I cry...?Steve, with a glare at both men, goes to the phone onSally's desk. He dials. D'ANGELO (continuing) ...People catch on quick to such an item. Van Cleve already called me - he's firing the quintet. SIDNEY Then what are you doing here? Go over there and fight! If Van Cleve fires your boy, it gives a lie the ring of truth!In background Steve speaks quietly into the phone: STEVE I want to speak to Miss Hunsecker, please. D'ANGELO (replying to Sidney's question) We're on our way there now... SIDNEY (who has wheeled on Steve) What are you calling her for...?STEVESidney's reaction to the mention of Susan's name gives Stevefood for thought. While he waits for Susan to be summonedto the phone, he studies Sidney. STEVE (to Sidney) I'm the boyfriend, remember? I hope one day she'll be my wife... (into the phone, gently) This is Steve, Susie. Don't be alarmed, Susie, but I want you to look at Elwell's column in The Record...today...No, about me...INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - SUSAN'S BEDROOM - DAYSusan is on the phone. Listening to what Steve says, she isfrightened - almost too frightened; it is as if, in somecurious sense, she had been expecting this blow. It bringsan echo of an earlier tragedy. SUSAN A smear?...What...What kind of smear...? Where are you?INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENTSteve is on the phone in foreground, the others watching him.In particular, Sally, who stands near Steve, is studying himwith obvious sympathy. She looks slowly towards Sidney. STEVE (to the phone) We're on our way to the Elysian Room to dicker with Van Cleve - he's fired us already. I'll call you later, dear... 'Bye!...He hangs up quietly, looks at Sidney and walks towards thedoor. STEVE Come on, Frank.ANOTHER ANGLEAs the door closes behind Steve, Frank follows, more slowly.As D'Angelo reaches the door, he pauses with his hand on thedoorknob and turns back to study Sidney.SIDNEYHe feels uneasy under D'Angelo's scrutiny. Sally, inbackground, is also watching Sidney. SIDNEY (to D'Angelo) What are you looking at...?D'ANGELOHe does not answer for a moment. The unspoken accusation inhis look is very clear. Then: D'ANGELO (quietly) The ugly world, Sidney... (a pause) If I told Steve what I really think, he'd tear your head off...RESUME SIDNEYHe brazens it out. SIDNEY (sneering) Tell him.RESUME D'ANGELOD'Angelo shakes his head. D'ANGELO No. I'm interested in his future.D'Angelo goes slowly out.RESUME SIDNEYHe hesitates before turning towards Sally (because herealizes that this exchange with D'Angelo must have confirmedSally in her suspicions).SALLYHer face shows that Sidney is right. Sally is deeply hurt,disillusioned.ANOTHER ANGLESidney turns to her, challenging. SIDNEY What's the matter? SALLY (not looking at him) Nothing...Resentfully, Sidney moves about the room. Sensing thesilent accusation against him, he is aggressive. SIDNEY You know, Sally, sometimes I get the impression you think you live in Star-Bright Park. This is life, kid - get used to it!Sidney comes to the phone on her desk. He dials. Then heglances swiftly at Sally and, carrying the phone, walks intothe bedroom, dragging the long cord behind him.INT. BEDROOMWhen the phone comes alive, Sidney pushes the bedroom doorshut. The gesture is as casual as he can contrive to makeit. Keeping his voice fairly low so that it cannot be heardin the other room, he says: SIDNEY (to phone) Nikko, is Mr. Hunsecker there? This is Mr. Falco. Well, have him call me as soon as he can. It's important.He sets the phone down on the bedside table, looks at itthoughtfully before he goes back to the bedroom door, opensit and goes back into the office.INT. OFFICESidney stands on the threshold, studying Sally. His manneris now more sympathetic as he asks: SIDNEY Did you send my folks in Philly the check...? SALLY Yes.Leaving the bedroom door open, Sidney comes up to her,watches her shrewdly, cautiously. SIDNEY (softly) I put a lotta trust in you, Chickie... SALLY (low-voiced) I know you do, Sidney. SIDNEY Don't judge a situation where you don't know what's involved...Sally is putting paper in the typewriter, trying to hold herhead up. SALLY I'm not judging...Sidney comes closer to her. He puts his hand on the nape ofher neck, carrassing her. Under his touch, the girl isunhappy, and yet at the same time, responsive. Sidney stillhas power over her but she is disturbed by feelings of shame.Feeling her relaxed, Sidney bends and kisses her on the sideof the throat with more than negligence, for something abouther always excites him; his aggression tune in with hersubmissiveness. SALLY (pathetically) I swear, Sidney, I can't help it - sometimes I wonder what I see in you... SIDNEY (murmuring) That's no way to talk... SALLY Or what you see in me, for that matter... SIDNEY Stay down town tonight. Maybe we'll take in a show, etc. SALLY If you want me to -The phone in the bedroom rings. Sidney, reacting sharply,forgets his advances to Sally as he turns towards the bedroom. SIDNEY (exhilarated) You see? Hunsecker's gotta phone ME!He goes into the bedroom, closing the door as he goes.Sally looks at the closed door.INT. BEDROOMSidney has picked up the phone. SIDNEY (calmly) Hello, J.J....I presume you saw the Elwell smear. (smiling) No, no medals - not yet. Oh, it's worse than that - Aunty Van Cleve is firing them...from the horse's mouth... They were just here - in a panic...INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - THE STUDY - DAYHunsecker wears a dressing gown as he sits at his breakfasttable. Behind him are the big glass windows to the terraceoverlooking the Manhattan skyline. The papers are atHunsecker's elbow; his manner is crisp and cold: HUNSECKER Who was just there? (then) You'll be the death of me. Sidalee! Why? Didn't you just tell me that they've already traced this smear to you? All they have to do now is to put two and two together and I'm a chicken in a pot!RESUME SIDNEY'S APARTMENTSidney smiles confidently, answers calmly: SIDNEY J.J., peace on earth, good will to men - it's working out just the way I planned. Yeah, I guarantee this bomb will pop right on schedule, but you have to play your part - you be a Saint and let me be the Devil. But I wanna talk to you first...RESUME HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSEHunsecker pauses, eyes full of cold voltage. HUNSECKER Don't come here. Susie is up and about. (listening) He called her? You'd better see me at the TV - three o'clock.He bangs down the phone, tense thought in his manner.INT. SIDNEY'S APARTMENTSally is busy with her typing again, but in a depressed moodwhen Sidney comes out of the bedroom to put the phone downon her desk again. He seems satisfied with himself, smug.Sally watches him for a moment. Then: SALLY What are you going to do?Sidney prepares to leave the apartment. His tone is full ofconfidence, self-assertive. (For once Sidney is certainthat he is smarter, more cunning than even Hunsecker). SIDNEY (the wise one) Chickie, a lotta people think they're smart. You watch. They're dumb: they'll do the work for me! Just watch.Sidney makes for the door, goes out.INT. CIGAR STAND - LOBBYSusan buys paper - DOLLY with her - toward elevator - shegets in.INT. HUNSECKER'S LIVING ROOMJ.J. has not moved; he is thoughtful and morose. Nikko, theJapanese butler, comes in to remove the breakfast table. HUNSECKER The table can wait. No calls. I have to think about my TV show. NIKKO Pleased to do. I will come back later. HUNSECKER (abruptly) Did you put the bread out on the terrace for the birds? NIKKO Yes, but they don't come no more this time of year.Smiling, Nikko leaves. Hunsecker picks up a pencil andmakes a note on a pad, about birds no doubt. Abruptly helooks up, calling: HUNSECKER Susie! Come in a minute, dear...She has been trying to pass unnoticed to her room. Shecomes forward to him; her manner is serious and wary. Hisact is one of a tasteful Mammy singer, but he is watchful,too. HUNSECKER Susie, you're very much in my thoughts today. SUSAN Why? HUNSECKER What a question, dear, with that newspaper in your hand... SUSAN (pausing) Did Sidney tell you about it? HUNSECKER Yes, he phoned. I don't know this boy too well. Anything in these charges?She shakes her head. HUNSECKER Not being partial, are you? SUSAN (with quiet certainty) No, I'm not. I'm not!He soothes, smiles indulgent, but watchful: HUNSECKER Susie, take it easy. I'll trust your judgment - you don't have to protest with me.With a paternal gesture of affection, he holds out his arms,inviting her into his comforting embrace. Not wanting to,she walks into his open waiting arms. HUNSECKER Why are you trembling, dear...? SUSAN History repeats itself. Everything that happened to Alan Leslie...began with a smear like this...Hunsecker considers this gravely, as if it was a new andtroubling thought. HUNSECKER Yes...She leaves his arms; he watches keenly. SUSAN (incoherent) It's just as if I've seen a ghost today... HUNSECKER (quickly) But that wasn't your fault, dear, what happened to Leslie. I've told you that a million times...He goes to her gently; she appraises both him and herwrenched life with brooding, frightened eyes. SUSAN Then whose fault was it, J.J.? It was someone's fault, wasn't it? HUNSECKER (gravely) I wouldn't have called the boy exactly balanced... SUSAN (stronger) Alan was not...unbalanced when I married him. And he was not...'indifferent to women' no matter what they said! HUNSECKER (simply) I'm not fighting with you, puss...She gets up and walks around in considerable agitation. SUSAN He never would have killed himself if I hadn't gone through with the annulment. Don't you see that made all the rumors seem true? I should have stood up for him...not run out.She turns to Hunsecker, her manner firmer. SIDNEY J.J., I want you to get them back their job, Steve and the Quintet. HUNSECKER ("incredulously") You mean they've been fired already, on the basis of this crude smear?He walks away with a wag of indignation, but turns, asking: HUNSECKER Susie, you're sure there isn't some fire where there's this much smoke?Susan shakes her head emphatically. SIDNEY (earnestly) I know Steve. No. HUNSECKER Then maybe you can tell me if he's as solid as you say, why does he rap me every chance he gets? SUSAN (involuntarily) Sidney is a liar! HUNSECKER Who said Sidney? SUSAN (defiantly) I said Sidney!...Staring, he pauses; then he deftly changes the subject. HUNSECKER You know, dear, we're drifting apart, you and I, and I don't like that. SUSAN I thought we were talking about Sidney? HUNSECKER (with rasp) Let me finish, dear. You had your say, now let me have mine... SUSAN (interrupting) I haven't said anything yet, J.J., but if -Susan hesitates. Hunsecker waits for her to continue. Butshe isn't yet sure enough of herself or of the point shemeans to make. She turns away. HUNSECKER (gently) I started to say we're drifting apart. A year ago, in your wildest dreams, would you have walked by that door without taking up this situation with me? Today I had to call you in! SUSAN I'm taking up the situation with you now... HUNSECKER (interrupting) Susie, I want to help you--, there's nothing I won't do for you. You're all I've got in the whole, wide world.Hunsecker strides about, elaborately playing on a note ofdisillusion and pain. HUNSECKER (continuing) Well, what have I got? Alimony to a pair of tramps? They're of no concern to me. It's you who count, but don't get me wrong - I don't intend to let you break your neck again! SIDNEY J.J., you said you want to help me - prove it! HUNSECKER (quietly) How? SIDNEY Get Steve back his job...please... HUNSECKER (pausing) He means that much to you...? SIDNEY (simply) Yes. (then) With your "prestige" it only takes a minute - ten cents worth of American Tel and Tel. HUNSECKER You're picking up my lingo, hon. SIDNEY (levelly) I read your column every day...He looks at her with pursed lips and, for a change, somereal interest. Her level, straightforward manner has pinnedhim down completely; he shows a slow, charming grin, as hegoes for a private phone book: HUNSECKER Susie, I like this new attitude of yours. You're growing up and I like it! I don't like it when you're limp and dependent, when you're odd and wayward. This gives you a chance for real survival in a very lousy world. Because, don't forget, dear, you won't always have me with you, will you...? SIDNEY No, I won't...He crosses to the white desk phone, delaying dialing for amoment: HUNSECKER This Dallas boy must be good for you. Why not bring him around today, before the show? This time I'll clean my glasses for a better look.Susan doesn't like this idea, is evasive: SIDNEY I'm not sure I can reach him in time. HUNSECKER (easily) Sure you can if you want to, and I know you'll want to... (then) By the way, what's your beef against little Sidney? SUSAN (steadily) When I'm certain, I'll let you know... HUNSECKER A man couldn't ask for a squarer shake. (into phone) Let me have Billy Van Cleve... (then) Don't ever tell anyone, Susie, how I'm tied to your apron strings... (to phone) Billy! J.J.! What's this about that boy? What boy? Where are we, lug, in a drawing room comedy? You're brain is warming up, sweetheart - yeah, Dallas!... (then) No, don't explain your point of view, but...EXT. TV THEATRE - DAYCAMERA SHOOTS TOWARDS the entrance to the TV theatre. Aline of people are queuing for Hunsecker's TV Broadcastwhich is advertised by large posters beside the entrance. Ataxi drives up in foreground; Susan Hunsecker gets out.SIDNEYSidney comes up Sixth Avenue towards the theatre. As hereaches the corner of the building, he halts, having seen...SUSANSusan is seen in the act of paying the driver. As the taxipulls away, Susan walks CAMERA left.TV THEATRESusan pauses, deciding not to enter the theatre; turning shelooks about her and waits on the sidewalk outside.SIDNEYSidney decides that this is not the moment to approach Susan.He glances down the sidestreet then moves off in thatdirection.SIDESTREETSidney moves down the sidestreet towards a stage entrance,through which are emerging some TV technicians. He slipsinside.INT. TV STATIONHunsecker is standing at a table, stop watch in hand,reading aloud from a script which he is rehearsing andtiming. Beside him sits Mary busy typing more of thematerial from Hunsecker's handwritten note. Mary is calm,but he is irritable, trying to concentrate despite thebustle around him.An old movie star, MILDRED TAM, sits waiting in one of thecanvas-backed chairs supplied for the guests on the show.BURTON, a manager, also waits, deadpan, at Hunsecker's elbow.Hunsecker clicks his stop watch as he reads: HUNSECKER "I was reminded of it this morning, when I noticed that the birds had gone South. We want the same kind of freedom for ourselves - that's what the man said! (he clicks the watch, pauses to underline the phrase, continues:) A man has the right to face his accusers! That's the American Way! Who said? The man said! From..."He turns in exasperation to Burton. HUNSECKER Burton, don't stand around. If I go over I'll cut some items off the tail...Burton departs. Mary whips a second sheet out of thetypewriter, hands it to Hunsecker. As he accepts it,Hunsecker looks off towards the auditorium.SIDNEYSHOOTING towards the auditorium, from Hunsecker's viewpoint.Sidney mounts the steps onto the stage. Seeing that thecolumnist is surrounded but knowing that J.J. wants to talkto him privately, Sidney loiters so that J.J. can join himas soon as he chooses to. CAMERA PULLS BACK to includeHunsecker. Only momentarily distracted by privateconsiderations connected with Sidney's arrival, Hunseckerreturns to the business of timing the script. He clicks thewatch again... HUNSECKER "From Washington through to Jefferson, from Lincoln and F.D.R. right up to today - the Democratic Way of Life! That's what the man said! Nowadays it doesn't export to well... (then, concluding) But you know...and I know...that our best secret weapon is D-E-M-O- C-R-A-C-Y. (dropping to a modest tone) Let's never forget it, ladies and gentlemen."ANOTHER ANGLESidney lingers beside the old movie star who is listening,rapt, to Hunsecker's words. Sidney is less impressed withJ.J.'s eloquence. At the conclusion, Mildred applaudslightly. She stands up and moves towards J.J. J.J. wantsto talk to Sidney but is frustrated by the old movie star. MILDRED TAM That's grand, just grand, J.J.! (then, anxiously) Is my makeup all right? You know, despite the scads of movies I've made, I've never appeared on TV yet... HUNSECKER (cutting her short) Of course, Mildred. Of course. You look fine. (swiftly summoning Mary) Mary, help Miss Tam - anything she wants; she's our star today.Under the pretense of studying the typed script, J.J. walksaway across the stage. Sidney strolls after him.ANOTHER ANGLEA TRACKING SHOT. Sidney comes up beside Hunsecker, fallsinto step beside him. As they cross towards a water coolerat the back of the stage, they talk in rapid undertone. HUNSECKER I got that boy coming over here. (a glance at Sidney) What's so funny? SIDNEY (who is smiling faintly) With a pocket fulla firecrackers - good. HUNSECKER (narrowly) I think you loused this up but good. If I can trust my eyes, and I think I can, Susie knows all about your dirty work. SIDNEY (shrugging) Can't hurt... HUNSECKER (incredulously) Can't hurt? I had to get him back his job. SIDNEY (smugly) I like that, too. (closer, faster) Look, J.J., we can wrap this up in one neat bundle, addressed to the dumps - to oblivion. We're going great, but please play it my way. I cased this kid. Know his ins and outs...He's fulla juice and vinegar, just begging for some big shot like you to give him a squeeze. Do little Sidney a favor: squeeze! - You know, J.J. - the porcupine bit - needles. HUNSECKER But it's too late. I got him back the job... SIDNEY (impatiently) No, that's the point - he won't accept your favor! The manager yes, but not the boy.A pause. Hunsecker renumerates. HUNSECKER Well he's got her in a tizzy, I'll tell you that! SIDNEY Sure, he steams her up - wants her to stand on her own two feet and all that jazz! HUNSECKER And who's feet is she on now? SIDNEY Presumably yours... (a hasty addition) That's according to St. Dallas. HUNSECKER What's this boy got that Susie likes? SIDNEY Integrity - acute, like indigestion. HUNSECKER What does that mean - integrity? SIDNEY (repeating as before) A pocket fulla firecrackers - looking for a match! (grinning) It's a new wrinkle to tell the truth... I never thought I'd make a killing on some guy's "integrity".Hunsecker gives him certain slow begrudging admiration: HUNSECKER Full of beans, ain't you? But you know that you'll stand or fall by what you're doing now... SIDNEY (grins; confidently) Calculated risk. Only we happen to know, J.J., that you like me. I'm your star pupil -- I reflect back to you your own talent.Hunsecker permits himself a faint smile. Burton isapproaching with script in hand. HUNSECKER I wouldn't like to take a bite of you; you're a cookie full of arsenic.Sidney smirks. He turns away and goes off towards theauditorium in the background.EXT. TV STATION - DAYFrank D'Angelo pays a taxi out of which he and Steve havejust emerged. Frank turns towards the boy, resuming aconversation as they stroll across the sidewalk towards theentrance of the theatre. STEVE (depressed) I still think he's responsible for the smear. D'ANGELO Not that I'm convinced, but you'll never prove it in a million years. (gently) Steve, you'll do what you want, but it can't hurt; he offers you an olive branch - so today like olives! STEVE I guess you're right, but -Steve completes the sentence with a slow shake of the head;compromise is a gesture which he finds very difficult.D'ANGELOD'Angelo studies the boy with a paternal affection. D'ANGELO Steve, sometimes it's better not to look at your own honesty; but to look the other man in the face. Not because you're my meal ticket - which you are - but because I like you and the boys, please take my advice: we -D'Angelo stops, halted by an expression which he sees inSteve's face.STEVEHe is looking through the glass doors of the TV Theatre, nolonger listening to D'Angelo's words; his face has hardenedin anger.INT. TV THEATRE FOYERFrom Steve's viewpoint. Sidney has come out of the curtainedentrance to the auditorium. CAMERA PULLS BACK to includeSteve in foreground. With a movement that suggests hisannoyance at discovering Sidney present, Steve jerks openthe glass door and moves in.ANOTHER ANGLESusan is waiting in the foyer. She is standing in a positionwhere she has not been able to see Steve until he enters;now she moves forward to greet him. As soon as she is nearhim, she speaks in a quiet, urgent manner: SUSAN (in an undertone) Steve, before we go in - I'd like to...But she, too, is halted as Steve lays a hand on her arm.Seeing his look over her shoulder, she turns...SIDNEYHe is already strolling forward to join them. CAMERA PANSwith him to include Susie, Steve and D'Angelo. SIDNEY Hey, Susie - This is a real surprise -- not one but three. J.J.'s just finishing up his rehearsal.STAGEHunsecker comes forward to the front of the stage lookingtowards...STEVE, SUSAN, D'ANGELO AND SIDNEYIn the group that comes down the aisle of the empty theatre.RESUME HUNSECKERHe studies them, then calls out: HUNSECKER Looks like a wedding.REVERSE ANGLEHunsecker back to CAMERA in foreground; he begins to whistleThe Wedding March to the rhythm of Steve and Susan's walk.STEVEHe breaks the rhythm of his stride, his face rigid.RESUME HUNSECKERHe descends to meet them; his manner is full of welcome.REVERSE ANGLESusan nervously makes the introduction - Steve is nervous;D'Angelo hangs behind warily; Sidney is in background. SUSAN Steve, you remember my brother... STEVE & HUNSECKER (together) Of course.Steve shakes the hand that the smiling Hunsecker gives. HUNSECKER Well, son, looks like you went out and bought yourself a packet of trouble... STEVE You've been very kind about it, Mr. Hunsecker. HUNSECKER Give Susie credit for that. I took her word that there was nothing to the smear. Matter of fact, I'll have my say about smears on the show today. That's why I'd like YOUR personal assurance, too. STEVE (quietly) Mr. Hunsecker, there's nothing to that smear. You have my sincere word... HUNSECKER (nodding judicially) I'll by that, son. Now, you owe ME a favor. (pausing; to Susan) Be good to my kid sister... SIDNEY (solemnly) Yeah, she's had a peck of trouble for a kid...Hunsecker flicks a look at Sidney. No one else, warier bythe minute, knows what to say. Hunsecker purrs onward: HUNSECKER Susie likes to keep her girlish secrets. But in her heart of hearts I imagine, Dallas, that she fancies you in an uncommon way. Now, what about YOU, son? Not just tom-catting around...I hope? SUSAN (quickly) J.J., Steve isn't...Hunsecker cuts her off with lazy good nature: HUNSECKER Take it easy, Susie. He wouldn't be much of a man if he didn't understand my concern. Would you, son? STEVE (pausing, quietly) No, I wouldn't... HUNSECKER (nodding) Serious as a deacon...I like it. I like your style, son! In a world of old rags and bones, I like it! For instance, take Sidney.Hunsecker crosses toward Sidney. HUNSECKER (CONT'D) If Sidney got anywhere near Susie I'd break a bat over Sidney's head! (smiling faintly) Sidney lives so much in a moral twilight that, when I said you were coming here, he predicted disaster. You wouldn't take my favor -- you'd chew up the job, he said, and spit it right back in my face! (sniffing) Any truth in that...?D'ANGELO, STEVE AND SUSANSteve is thrown for a loss momentarily; Frank steps in. D'ANGELO No, Mr. Hunsecker, and if I can amplify --HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY HUNSECKER (motionless) Don't amplify.RESUME D'ANGELO, STEVE AND SUSAN D'ANGELO Steve wantsa thank you for this favor. He --GROUP SHOT SIDNEY (provocatively) Frank, you don't listen! J.J. just told you to shut your mouth! STEVE (hotly) Don't you think it's about time you shut yours? Who are you to tell a man like Frank D'Angelo to shut up?! D'ANGELO (warningly) Steve, that isn't important --But Steve, on a heated rip, has turned to Hunsecker: STEVE Does he have to be here in our hair?HUNSECKER HUNSECKER Why, has he bothered you before?STEVE, D'ANGELO AND SUSAN STEVE Is it news to you?HUNSECKER HUNSECKER Son, lots of people tell me I'm a gifted man, but I still can't see around corners.GROUP SHOT HUNSECKER (tolerantly) Just exactly what are you so hot about? (waiting) I mean, I know it's a difficult thing to be an artist in this crudest of possible worlds, but -- STEVE (impatiently) Nuts! I'm not here as an artist! I'm here as an average Joe, who happens to love your sister Susie! HUNSECKER (with ironic smirk) Well, just be careful you don't knock her down, huh?Steve stops dead. Then, strangely and dangerously, he picksup Hunsecker's smile. On each man's face the smile broadensand grows up into a chuckle from each; but the meannessstill flickers around Hunsecker's mouth. Steve is out ofthe net! HUNSECKER (affably) Frankly, son, you lost me on that last hill. Just give us the punch line... STEVE (agreeably) No punch line. Maybe I was just admiring your know-how---yours and Falco's.HUNSECKER AND SIDNEY HUNSECKER Why do you keep coupling me with Falco?STEVE, D'ANGELO AND SUSAN STEVE (innocently) He's here, isn't he? Do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYEven Hunsecker smiles. Sidney likes neither the ridicule orthe turn of events. He moves quickly past CAMERA.SIDNEY, STEVE, D'ANGELO AND SUSANSidney comes round the row of theatre seats to attack Steve. SIDNEY Let's forget cats and dogs and other pseudo-literary remarks--- I'll just lay it on the line! What about that big rumpus in my office today? You were there, Frank! Where, according to St. Dallas, J.J. was responsible for the Elwell smear!HUNSECKER HUNSECKER Don't go wild, Sidney.GROUP SHOT SIDNEY Wild? Take a look at them and see who's wild...Playing along nicely, Hunsecker looks at Steve and Frank andslowly removes his arm from Susan; he pauses before askingDallas: HUNSECKER What about that...? D'ANGELO (uneasily) Steve was excited...he didn't mean it exactly the way it's stated here... HUNSECKER (to Steve) How did you mean it...? SIDNEY SUSAN What he likes to--- J.J., I don't want to say---With a roar Hunsecker takes them both out of play; he standsup.SIDNEY, STEVE, D'ANGELOHunsecker enters from behind CAMERA. HUNSECKER Both of you keep quiet! (to Sidney) You've made more damage here in one minute than a plague of locusts! If you're tired, Susie, sit down--- this needs investigation! (to Steve, quieter) How did you mean it...? (waiting) Come on, let's go! Let's go!...Steve is cornered, the other completely out of play. Hepauses: STEVE I don't take kindly to you and Falco selling me ethics. Who's the injured party here, you? HUNSECKER (with contempt) Right now you're in no position to ask questions! And your snide remarks--- STEVE (stronger) Wait a minute, I haven't handed over punishing privileges to you YET! Put the whip down and I might respect what you're saying...Switching his leonine tail, Hunsecker looks broodingly atSusie. Frank says one beseeching word, "Steve...", but noone hears him. HUNSECKER Susie, did you know about this accusation...?SUSAN SUSAN (mutely) No...HUNSECKER HUNSECKER (abruptly) Before you leave, son, I'll answer your question---Susan Hunsecker is the injured party here! (balefully) Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart...STEVE AND SUSANSteve hesitates defensively but can't resist a small smile;he moves nearer to Susan. STEVE Mr. Hunsecker, you've got more twists than a barrel of pretzels. HUNSECKER (unturning) You hear that, Susie... (to Steve) Continue please... STEVE (shaking his head) I'm afraid I can't cope with them.REVERSE ANGLESusan in foreground, Steve, Hunsecker and Sidney beyond. STEVE (CONT'D) (simply) You're too shrewd for me so I'll just be honest. Susie and I love each other, if I'm not mistaken, and we want to get married.Hunsecker pauses; Sidney throws in a stage whisper: SIDNEY Give him credit---the boy's gall is gorgeous! STEVE Why don't we hear what Susie has to say? HUNSECKER (sardonically) That's stout of you, Dallas, but Susie may not care to air her dismal views in public...Steve walks to Susie, trying to lift her with his hopes andair of gentle urging and support. STEVE Susie...?SUSANShe stares at the floor.RESUME REVERSE ANGLEHunsecker doesn't like the drift of things; his mouthtightens and he speaks to Susan with veiled warning: HUNSECKER Susie, as always, is free to say anything she thinks. Go on, dear, say exactly what's on your mind, dear. STEVE Those "dears" sound like daggers. May I suggest that you stop DARING her to speak? HUNSECKER May I lift my eyebrows? What is this? What are you trying to do? STEVE (strongly) I'm trying to get Susie to stand up to you. But your manner is so threatening that she's afraid to speak! HUNSECKER Son, you raise your voice again and you'll be outa here on your golden pratt!SUSANSuddenly Susan lets loose, with restrained nervous energy;she is near to tears. SUSAN Steve, if only for my sake, I want this stopped! And the same goes for you, too, J.J.!HUNSECKERHe interjects. HUNSECKER (contritely) Susie, I'm sorry if---RESUME SUSAN SUSAN (bitterly) Sometimes I think ALL men are fools!...Restraining tears, she runs up the steps to the stage.STEVE, HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYSteve looks after her. Sidney watches intently. Hunsecker'ssmile is frostily taunting: HUNSECKER You see, Dallas, a plague on both our houses... (then) We may have to call this game on account of darkness...Steve turns a blank-eyed stare at him. Tension gone, a slowmumbling fatigue has set in. Hunsecker plays it light: HUNSECKER If looks could kill, I'm dead... STEVE (slowly) No, I don't care about you -- you're fantastic. My whole interest, if it's not too late, is in Susie...and how to undo what you've done to her... HUNSECKER (smiling) And what have I done to her, besides not buy her a new fur coat lately? Sidney, you were right -- the boy's a dilly. STEVE (stung) Why? Because I don't like the way you toy with human lives? - Your contempt and malice? Because I won't be the accomplice of your sick ego - and the way it's crippled Susie...? You think of yourself - you and your column - you see yourself as a national glory...but to me, and thousands of others like me, you and your slimy scandal, your phony patriotics - to me, Mr. Hunsecker, you are a national disgrace! HUNSECKER (blandly) Son, I don't fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns. So suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day...He turns and stares away, but Steve stops him with--- STEVE But my day with Susie isn't over yet and-- HUNSECKER (cold) Ten'll get you fifty you're playing hookey from a padded cell!STAGEHunsecker comes up the steps from the auditorium, Sidneyfollowing closely behind. In background, beyond, Steve andD'Angelo are walking up the aisle to the exit. CAMERATRACKS CLOSE on Sidney and Hunsecker. Hunsecker's face isrigid. Sidney, close at his elbow, whispers: SIDNEY (softly) You did it, J.J., you did it good...Sidney is full of confidence. But Hunsecker barely hearshim (Hunsecker has been hurt very deeply by the boy'sattack; in particular, by the appalling fear that what Stevehas said is the kind of thing which Susan may also secretlybelieve.)ANOTHER ANGLESusan is still standing in the wings. Mary is with her,obviously sympathetic. The girl is drying her eyes withKleenex, and Mary glances at her employer with a look ofreproach. Hunsecker walks round the table, obviously tryingto approach Susan; seeing this, Susan turns away and movesfurther from him. Hunsecker stops.HUNSECKERThere is some emotion in his face as he looks towards thegirl. More gently, he moves forward past CAMERA...SUSANSensing the approach of Hunsecker behind her, she moves awayagain; she is still crying, but is trying to recover.Presently Hunsecker approaches her again. He speaks verygently, soothingly, comforting... HUNSECKER (softly) You in a mood, Susie, to run over to Milgrim's later and buy a few new frocks? SUSAN (a small voice) No. I'm going home.Hunsecker again tries to come nearer to her. HUNSECKER Want Sidney to drive you over?Ignoring the shake of her head, he calls to Sidney. HUNSECKER Drive Susie home.HUNSECKERAgain we see some emotion in his face as he studies the girl.His eyes flick towards the stage behind him where Sidneystands watching. He moves gently forward and then speaks ina quiet voice which reveals how desperately he needs herreassurance: HUNSECKER Susie...I...I'd have to take it very much amiss if you ever saw that boy again.SUSANAfter a pause, she turns towards him; she looks him straightin the face. SUSAN (levelly) I'll never see him again.RESUME HUNSECKERHe seems to take this as a gesture of forgiveness from her.Now he touches her. His need for her is apparent; he triesto reach her, tries to find an excuse to embrace her. Shesubmits to this very passively.SUSANA VERY CLOSE SHOT. We see the effort with which she iscontrolling herself.RESUME TWO SHOTSatisfied with this crumb of affection from his sister,Hunsecker lets her go. Susan moves away, still avoiding hiseyes. Then she goes off towards the steps down into theauditorium. Sidney looks at Hunsecker, then after Susan andfollows her.RESUME HUNSECKERHe goes back to Mary and the script. He instructs her: HUNSECKER Call Van Cleve. Tell him he was right. Tell him I said the Dallas boys are not worthy of his club.Poring over the typewritten pages, he senses Mary's eyes onhim. He speaks to her quietly without raising his head andthere is still an undertone of feeling in his voice: HUNSECKER (without looking up) Mary...for Susie's own good...don't give her misplaced sympathy...Mary says nothing. Hunsecker gathers his papers and with avisible effort to resume his public personality turnstowards the machinery of the television broadcast inbackground.INT. TV THEATRE FOYERSusan crosses towards the doors out onto the street. Sidneycomes behind her, watchful as he overtakes her near thedoors. He goes past her to open the door for her. SIDNEY I'll get you a cab...Susan stops dead. SUSAN (coldly) Get away from me.She goes out into the street. Beyond, we see a crushing cab.Hesitating, Sidney adds: SIDNEY J.J. asked me to drive you over and -But Susan has already moved out of shot, hurrying across thesidewalk to hail the taxi.RESUME SIDNEYUncertain what to do, whether to follow her or not, he movesafter her.SUSANShe has already opened the door of the taxi. She turns tosee Sidney come up behind her. As he enters SHOT, sherepeats: SUSAN I told you to leave! I don't know if Steve'll ever talk to me again and I'm ready to blame it all on you!She starts to get into the cab...SIDNEYAlert, he moves to detain her (anxious to know exactly theextent of her suspicion.) SIDNEY Susie...!ANOTHER ANGLEAs Sidney steps up, he grasps at the door of the taxi,trying to hold it open, but Susan pulls it shut, catchinghis fingers in the door. Sidney steps back in pain...TAXIIt drives off down Sixth Avenue.SIDNEYNursing the injury to his hand, he looks after thedisappearing taxi. As he recovers from the pain, hisexpression slowly changes to one of thoughtful appraisal.(Susan's suspicions maybe of less importance than some otherconsiderations.) DISSOLVE TO:INT. TWENTY ONE CLUB WASHROOM - NIGHTHunsecker and Sidney are washing in adjoining basins. Coatoff, the former is in one of his punitive moods of silence.Sidney, despite his throbbing, bandaged finger, is feelingsatisfied and self-confident. He hums quietly. Hunseckerthrows him annoyed side-glances, but Sidney refuses to"catch on". The following dialogue is spaced between thewashing, the drying and hair-combing. HUNSECKER So that's what "integrity" looks like. Well, I'm always willing to learn... (later) How is that slob, D'Angelo, your uncle?Sidney no longer hums; after a moment, he answers. SIDNEY My mother's side--her brother. That reminds me, J.J., Susie looks run down. She can stand a vacation and so can you. People say, "Oh, the great J.J., he's made of iron!", but you can use a rest, guy.Sidney's cheerfulness annoys Hunsecker. HUNSECKER What are you so chipper about? If I put a cross on every one of your mistakes, you'd look like a graveyard! SIDNEY (smiling) But not for anything I did today... HUNSECKER Sidney, I know human nature. Susie lied to me - she'll see that boy again.Hunsecker moves out of shot. SIDNEY You're right, J.J. - she won't give him up, but it doesn't matter. Because the real "money ball" is the boy, not Susan. And if --Hearing the sound of the door, Sidney turns sharply. CAMERAMOVES to discover that Hunsecker has gone out. Sidney,quickly, finishing the brushing of his hair, follows...INT. DINING ROOM - "21" CLUBTwo waiters are fussing over Hunsecker's table at whichplaces are already set for Sidney and Hunsecker. Matre d'hands him an envelope as he passes. MATRE D' Mr. Hunsecker this was to be delivered to you personally -When the columnist comes up to the table, the waitersquickly pull out the table for him. Sidney comes to joinhim; Sidney gets some attention, but considerably less.CAMERA MOVES CLOSER. HUNSECKER These drinks are warm. WAITER You said you like to have them on your table. HUNSECKER What are you a critic? WAITER I'll change -- HUNSECKER Forget it. (to Sidney) The real money ball is the boy... SIDNEY Yeah, the boy...we're on the verge of a farce, a real farce. As I see it, if Susie had stood behind him today he might have proved a threat. But since primarily he's wedded to his work, he's not going to be able to take it.A waiter shifts the position of the salad dish at Hunsecker'selbow. HUNSECKER (to waiter) Stop tinkering, pal - that horse radish won't jump a fence!The waiter retreats rapidly. SIDNEY In brief, J.J., it's all over because any hour now the boy will give her up. Is it a farce or not?Delicately salting his oysters, Hunsecker looks obliquely atSidney. HUNSECKER This syrup you're giving out, Sidney, you pour over waffles, not J.J. Hunsecker! What do you mean that lousy kid will give up my sister?Hunsecker, with a casual gesture, tugs lightly at the end ofSidney's tie.Hunsecker's gesture is playful, but it inflicts great injuryto Sidney's dignity; Sidney cannot bear to be touched; hefinds this liberty on J.J.'s part as intolerable as anythinghe has experienced, and only with great difficulty controlshimself. The SHOT FAVORS Sidney.SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERHunsecker continues: HUNSECKER Are you listening? SIDNEY (warily) How does it matter who's sister? The main thing, they're through and -HUNSECKERFrom Sidney's viewpoint. Without turning, Hunseckerinterrupts: HUNSECKER Am I supposed to forget how that boy talked to me today?RESUME SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERSidney senses a warning in Hunsecker's manner. He protests: SIDNEY J.J., is he worthy of a second glance from a man like you? Is he, I mean?...HUNSECKERFrom Sidney's viewpoint. Pausing during the process ofeating, Hunsecker reaches into an inside pocket. HUNSECKER Brief epitaph: "The boy was talking when he should have been listening." (then) Bite on this.CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Sidney as Hunsecker tosses infront of him an envelope. Sidney opens it, extracts twosteamship tickets. SIDNEY Steamship tickets? HUNSECKER (as he eats) For the next sailing of the Mary. Susan's run down - she's never been abroad and as you so cogently put it, I'm not made of iron.Sidney slowly pushes the envelope back to Hunsecker, wholeaves it lying on the table before him. SIDNEY That's good. Now that louse is outa Susie's hair for good.SIDNEYHe has an instinct to laugh; but something tells him not to.HUNSECKERAs Sidney makes no response, Hunsecker slowly, carefullycontinues in a voice which is dangerously soft: HUNSECKER I want that boy taken apart.SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERSHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney. Sidney puts down hisfork. He sees now that the issue is serious and must befaced. SIDNEY (seriously) Why do something that would drive them right back into each other's arms? Not to mention that this time Susie would know who shot the arrow... HUNSECKER (interjecting quietly) She knows now. SIDNEY (quickly) Why give her real proof? You nearly ruined her with her first husband - and you were right, J.J., - but she almost followed him out the window. What do you want - a chronic invalid?HUNSECKERHe wants no advice from Sidney. He interrupts with quietsavagery. HUNSECKER I know how to handle Susie. You just handle the boy, Sidney... (scribbles on scratch pad) ...preferably tonight. (pushes pad across to Sidney)SIDNEY AND HUNSECKERSHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney. Sidney feels sick. SIDNEY Why, what's tomorrow - a holiday?CAMERA MOVES CLOSER as Sidney picks scratch pad up. We canread two words: "Get Kello". SIDNEY I think I'll go home - maybe I left my sense of humor in another suit.HUNSECKERHunsecker finishes eating. During the ensuing speech, whichhe begins quietly and sensibly, Hunsecker's venomous feelingsare unexpectedly betrayed. HUNSECKER You've got that God-given brain - learn to use it! Do you think it's a personal matter with me, this boy? Are you telling me I see things in terms of personal pique? Don't you see that today that boy wiped his feet on the choice, on the predilections of sixty million men and women of the greatest country in the world! If you had any morals yourself, you would understand the immorality of that boy's stand today! It was not me he criticized - it was my readers!...CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Sidney. Hunsecker manages tocontrol himself; he reaches with nervous fingers toward hisscribbling pad.SIDNEYSidney's face has tightened. He has begun now to realizethe extent of this man's megalomania. After a moment hesays: SIDNEY I'm leaving, J.J....HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYSHOOTING ACROSS Sidney onto Hunsecker. HUNSECKER (a quiet warning) Don't remove the gangplank, Sidney; you may wanna get back on board.SIDNEYSidney feels the chill of despair upon him. HUNSECKER This crab gumbo - terrific!HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYSHOOTING ACROSS Hunsecker onto Sidney. A waiter has come toserve the next course. Hunsecker appears relaxed, butSidney is sightlessly staring at the piece of paper in hishand. He speaks with a quaver in his voice, for he hasworked hard to make a life which is now ready to relinquish: SIDNEY J.J., it's one thing to wear your dog collar...but when it gets to be a noose...I'd rather have my freedom. HUNSECKER The man in jail is always for freedom.Sidney begins to get up from the table. SIDNEY (as he rises) Except, if you'll excuse me, I'm not in jail.Hunsecker looks up at Sidney.HUNSECKERFrom Sidney's viewpoint. HUNSECKER (easily) Sure you're in jail, Sidney. You're a prisoner of your own fears, of your own greed and ambition; you're in jail.SIDNEYFrom Hunsecker's viewpoint. SIDNEY J.J. If you're trying to -He leans over Hunsecker and the CAMERA PULLS BACK to includeHunsecker in f.g. HUNSECKER (interrupting) You, little boy, don't know who you are! Talking around corners with the big shots, ten dollar dinners - fourteen suits and cashmere coats - you tell yourself THAT'S who you are! Later you won't know who you are without a penthouse on upper Park! But underneath it all, ratting around from day to day, you DO know who you are! You're a fearful, ignorant nobody - a poor wop kid from the slums of Philly - hoping nobody else finds it out!SIDNEYA CLOSE UP. He knows the truth of what is said. But hetakes refuge in quiet retaliation: SIDNEY A little hunch occurs to me - you have just painted a self-portrait. You know who YOU are because you scare people - that's what you've got against this boy. He -HUNSECKERHunsecker is prepared to give it out, but not take it. HUNSECKER (cutting in) I told you what I want you to do tonight!SIDNEYHe looks down on Hunsecker, leans over the table. SIDNEY You're blind, Mr. Magoo. This is a crossroads for me. I won't get Kello. Not for a life-time pass to the Polo Grounds. Not if you serve me Ingrid Bergman on a plate.CAMERA has PULLED BACK to include Hunsecker, whose attentionhas returned to his food. HUNSECKER (over patient) Sidney, I told you - SIDNEY (continuing) J.J., I swear to you on my mother's life, I won't do it. (he leans even closer) If you gave me your COLUMN I wouldn't do a thing like that...But as he speaks the last words, Sidney's voice faltersbecause he has glanced down at the table...SIDNEYWe see that an idea has entered his head - an idea thattakes the wind out of his indignation. His eyes liftrapidly to Hunsecker's face. HUNSECKER (delicately touching the envelope) And who do you think writes the column while Susie and I are away for three months?...RESUME SIDNEYHe is quite speechless. Over scene Hunsecker's voice: HUNSECKER (V.O.) (continuing) ...The man in the moon?HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYCAMERA SHOOTS across Sidney again onto Hunsecker. Hunseckerleans back, looks at Sidney.Seeing that Sidney has accepted the proposition, he smiles. HUNSECKER (softly) Thank you, Sidney.In a pleasantly affable way, he leans across the table totap the hand with which Sidney is leaning on the table. HUNSECKER And, Sidney, I'll have that piece of paper back...Helplessly, Sidney unclenches a fist and reveals the slip ofpaper which he had meant to keep. Hunsecker takes it. Withhis eyes on Sidney, he slowly tears it up... LAP DISSOLVE TO:CIGAR STAND AND PHONE BOOTH - EVENINGD'Angelo is buying a cigar at the counter. He turns asSteve opens the door of one of the booths and comes out.Steve is in a gloomy, irksome mood; D'Angelo is sympatheticand fatherly. STEVE She'll be down in a minute.CAMERA TRACKS with them as they come out into the hallway.They move towards the side entrance, away from the elevators. D'ANGELO What does she wanna see you about?The boy shrugs impatiently. STEVE She didn't say.Some passersby come down the hall and enter a waitingelevator, barely glancing at D'Angelo and the boy. D'Angelofeels uneasy. D'ANGELO I could think of better places to meet her, instead of here. He lives on the whole top floor. STEVE (carelessly) I doubt that it matters any more.D'ANGELOHe addresses Steve soberly. D'ANGELO Steve. You made a very dangerous enemy of him today. Matter of fact, I'm very glad we got the tour ahead. If I'm any judge, you hurt him today where he lives... He won't forget it and he won't forgive...RESUME STEVE AND D'ANGELOSteve is silent. He hears the sound of the elevator dooropening and turns.Susan comes out of the elevator, the one farthest from them,and looks around. SUSAN (as she comes forward to join them) Good evening, Mr. D'Angelo.D'Angelo acknowledges her greeting, touches his hat andretires tactfully. Susan faces Steve. It's an awkwardmeeting. Each does not know where the other stands. Shehas thrown her fur coat about her shoulders like a cloak; itwill keep slipping off. He is faintly embittered, a littlehurt and baffled, but he is sympathetic; he is involved andconcerned.MED. CLOSE TWO SHOT OVER SHOULDER - SUSAN TO STEVE SUSAN Hello, Steve. I'm glad you could come. STEVE Why did you call me? SUSAN Would you buy me a cup of coffee? In there...REVERSE ANGLESusan nods in the direction of the door into the little cafe. STEVE Sure.As he walks with her towards the cafe: STEVE We're on our way to Robard's for a benefit. I've only got five minutes...INT. CAFEAs they enter the cafe, the Counterman looks up from countingthe day's take at the far end. COUNTERMAN Too late for service. STEVE Just two cups of java. COUNTERMAN (with a twinkle) We serve here only moka coffee. STEVE (smiling faintly) Make it moke.The Counterman goes to the urn for the coffee.SUSAN AND STEVEA closer angle. They talk in quiet undertones. Steve waitsfor her to speak first; she starts slowly, hesitantly, withdifficulty: SUSAN Steve...what you tried to do today...you tried to take me up on a high mountain...I couldn't go all the way...I failed you... (a pause) Will you forgive me? (then) Have I lost you, Steve? Have I...? STEVE Well, maybe I was wrong, too... But there's no doubt, Susie, that we have to face some serious things... SUSAN No one's ever stood up to my brother the way you did. STEVE (quietly, to the point) But you didn't do much about it, Susie. You walked out, and there I was...solo...and not too good at that. SUSAN I just didn't think that I could antagonize him, Steve -- for OUR sake, I mean.STEVE STEVE Susie, I was there for OUR sake, too. But what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa! By the way, I think your brother was completely responsible for the smears...SUSANThis accusation is made lightly, in passing. But Susanreacts to it, trying to interject: SUSAN Steve, I... STEVE (overriding her) But I don't care about that now. He knew what he was doing today. He was laying down the conditions under which he MIGHT consent to our marriage - if I would bend to every whim of his, like Sidney! I couldn't do that, Susie...SUSANAfter a pause, she says: SUSAN You're saying goodbye, aren't you?SUSAN AND STEVESteve flares up. STEVE No! I'm saying that for your sake you have to make a clean break with your brother! SUSAN (wrenched) But, please, Steve, please - one step at a time! I was born only yesterday!... STEVE (pausing, softer) I told your brother I couldn't be his accomplice. I can't be yours either, Susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you. I know what type - he's my old man all over again!Susan, pathetically despairing, fingers the handle of hercoffee cup, which she has not touched. The coat slips fromher shoulders...ANOTHER ANGLESteve stoops to pick it up, replaces it on her shoulders. STEVE This beautiful coat is more than just a coat... I hate it! It's a mink straight-jacket!Susan turns to him. She is deflated, lacking all will power. SUSAN (drooping) Steve, I feel exhausted...what do you want me to do? STEVE (not sure of himself) Not what you're doing now. At least don't ask me - don't ask him. You're fighting for your life! What do YOU want to do? SUSAN (pausing, woodenly) You are saying goodbye, aren't you...?STEVEHe reacts vigorously, protesting: STEVE (impatiently) That's fish four days old...! I can't buy it, Susie! Right out of that mouth I love, like you're a ventriloquist's dummy, your BROTHER is saying goodbye! Gee!...you want me to be honest, don't you?!SUSANA despairing cry: SUSAN No, Steve, I don't. I don't. Not if it KILLS me I don't!...SUSAN AND STEVEIt takes her a moment to recover. When she does so, shegets up, leaving the counter. SUSAN (without luster) Let's not talk any more...you have to go...She moves towards the exit into the hallway; he follows.HALLWAYD'Angelo is waiting for them. Silently they come up to joinhim, very depressed. Susan looks towards D'Angelo, speaks alittle pathetically: SUSAN Goodbye, Mr. D'Angelo. Take care of Steve. D'ANGELO (softly) I will, Miss Hunsecker.He walks a little way down the corridor, again leaving themalone.SUSAN AND STEVEShe smiles at him, trying to smile, trying to make a joke. SUSAN Say something funny...Mr. Hasenfeffer.Steve steps to her quickly, kisses her. Then he turns andswiftly walks off down the corridor without a backwardglance. He goes past D'Angelo, who walks quietly after himtowards the exit in background.SUSANShe remains just in the attitude in which he left her.EXT. BRILL BUILDING - NIGHTSteve comes out of the door, pauses without looking back.D'Angelo comes up behind him. STEVE (after a moment) Look back, Frank, see if she's still standing there...D'Angelo looks discreetly over his shoulder.SUSANFrom D'Angelo's point of view. She is still standing whereSteve left her.RESUME STEVE AND D'ANGELOD'Angelo turns back to Steve. D'ANGELO Still there...Steve, still without looking back, walks up the street;CAMERA TRACKING WITH THEM. D'ANGELO (with sympathy) Not that I don't like her - she's a very lovely person, but who can tell? A year from now you might thank your stars that it turned out this way. (changing the subject) By the way, Robard said that...Steve, his manner full of pain, stops. STEVE Frank, I don't want to make the benefit. They'll be jammin' all night, and the way I feel -- I'd like to be alone -- I'd like just to walk and walk and never come back.D'Angelo takes him firmly by the arm. D'ANGELO No. I don't leave you alone on a night like this. And, anyway, you promised...Steve looks at him, knowing that he can never shake off thedevoted Frank; he shrugs. They walk past CAMERA.INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHTThe heavy brass doors of the elevator slide open and theElevator Man pulls open the grille. Susan, still in themood in which Steve left her, stands in the elevator for amoment before she realizes that she has reached the topfloor. As she walks out, the Elevator Man looks at heranxiously. CAMERA PANS with Susan towards the door to theapartment. Susan fumbles for her key.INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSEThe apartment is dark as Susan enters. She does not switchon the lights. She walks through the shadows of the bigroom, which has a grim and menacing atmosphere. She kicksoff her shoes and, hugging the coat about her for warmthwalks to the glass windows of the terrace. After a momentshe opens them and steps out.EXT. TERRACE - NIGHTSusan walks across the terrace. At this height the wind isvery strong. CAMERA TRACKS with the girl, emphasizing thedizzying panorama of New York at night. The girl's manneris strange; she moves as if under compulsion, a sleepwalker.When she reaches the stone parapet, she leans against itwith her body slumped, still hugging the fur coat as if itwere some protection against her misery.EXT. FROM THE TERRACE - NIGHTVertically downward. From Susan's point of view. The stonesidewalks of Broadway are a terrifying distance below.SUSANAn angle, shooting sharply upwards against the night sky.Wind blows the girl's hair, as she looks fixedly downwards.Her face is blank, expressionless. (For a moment we may fearfor her, afraid that she may have suicide in mind.) Butpresently she lifts her head looking towards the horizon... LAP DISSOLVE TO:EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTCAMERA SHOOTS PAST the entrance to Robard's Club, framingthe outline of the bridge in sky in background. From insidecomes the sound of music -- the Quintet.The taxi drives up; Sidney gets out; he glances at hiswristwatch, looks around and then makes his way into the club.INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTSteve Dallas' Quintet on the stand. CAMERA FRAMES the groupin foreground, SHOOTING towards the entrance way.INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTSidney has come in through the entrance. He is taking offhis overcoat. He moves forward past the hat check room onthe left, approaching the recess in which several musiccases are stacked beside a coat rack on which the musicians'overcoats are hung.DETAILAs he hangs up his coat, Sidney identifies the other coat, ablack and white check raglan which he (and we) saw Stevewearing when he visited Hunsecker at the TV Studio.SIDNEYA CLOSE SHOT. The coat appears to have some significancefor him; Sidney is under tension.A waiter, carrying a carton of beer cans, comes out of thedoorway just behind Sidney, moving between him and theovercoat. Thus interrupted, Sidney turns away.INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTRobard is standing at the bar, surrounded by a group of hiscronies. Drink is flowing and there is a sentimental moodof celebration.As Sidney arrives at the bar, ordering a drink, FRANKD'ANGELO is seen coming from the interior of the club whereDallas and the Quintet can be seen playing; D'Angelo accostsRobard: D'ANGELO Lew, Steve don't feel too good... ROBARD (interjecting) I'm sorry to hear it.REVERSE ANGLECAMERA shoots past D'Angelo and Robard in f.g. towardsSidney, who overhears: D'ANGELO (continuing) ...So, if you don't mind, he'll leave after this set.In b.g., Sidney sets down his drink, reacting to thisinformation. Robard clamps D'Angelo on the shoulder,reassuring him with warm emphasis: ROBARD I like that boy, Frank. Anything he does is okay with me...SIDNEYSidney, thinking rapidly, leaves the bar, movingunobtrusively but purposefully towards a telephone booth.He enters and closes the door.PHONE BOOTHA CLOSER ANGLE. Shooting through the glass panel we seeSidney dialing. His manner is urgent. QUICK LAP DISSOLVE TO:EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTA long shot of the club exterior. A different musicalnumber is now being played in the interior. (GOODBYE BABY).A black car comes swiftly under the bridge, turns into thelittle square opposite the club, braking sharply.CLOSER ANGLEAs the car comes to a stop, CAMERA shoots across the hoodonto the windshield where we see the insignia: POLICE.The occupants of the car are not visible.INT/EXT. ROBARD'S CLUBSidney lingers near the doorway of the club. He is lookingacross the square towards the car which can be seen in b.g.Now he turns and walks towards the coat rack, CAMERA trackingwith him. He takes his own coat and, as he thrusts his arminto the sleeve, contrives neatly to slip some unseen objectinto the pocket of Steve's overcoat; CAMERA notes thegesture, but only very briefly. Overscene a voice addressesSidney: D'ANGELO (O.S.) Hey!..........SIDNEYA CLOSE UP. As he turns in swift apprehension, we note themoment of panic in his face.REVERSE ANGLECAMERA shoots past Sidney in foreground towards D'Angelo whoadvances on Sidney. D'Angelo's manner is unfriendly; for aninstant we feel, like Sidney, that D'Angelo may have seenSidney tampering with Steve's coat, but then we are reassuredas D'Angelo, deliberately using Sidney's surname, says: D'ANGELO (continuing) Mr. Falco...I hate to give you this satisfaction - they broke it off tonight for good.REVERSE ANGLEShooting across D'Angelo onto Sidney, who now relaxes, hisfears ungrounded. D'ANGELO (continuing) Tell that to Hunsecker - tell him we agree - he's a big man - he wins all the marbles!SIDNEYAs D'Angelo moves away again Sidney looks after him. Oncemore his face goes tense. (He asks himself, does thisdevelopment - which he himself anticipated - change thesituation?) He turns away, moving out of shot.ANOTHER ANGLECAMERA moves with Sidney as he walks towards the doorway.There he hesitates again; he looks back into the club.DALLASFrom Sidney's viewpoint. A LONG SHOT of Steve on thebandstand. CAMERA PANS deliberately towards the coatrack inf.g. A group of newly arrived musicians walk into the shot,setting down their instrument cases and starting to hang uptheir coats. (Clearly, Sidney could not now return to thecoat rack - even if he decided that he did want to undo hishandiwork.)RESUME SIDNEYCAMERA, shooting out across the square, frames Sidney in f.g.Facing the inevitable, Sidney turns away, walks across thesidewalk. On the other side of the square the headlamps ofthe car blink twice. Sidney walks towards it.POLICE CARA big man gets out of the seat next to the driver. As hecomes round the hood of the car, the headlamps of a passingtruck illuminate him, identifying HARRY KELLO. CAMERA PANSas he walks to meet Sidney.CLOSER ANGLEKello pauses as Sidney comes up to him, asks affably: KELLO What's all the rush? You said three o'clock. SIDNEY (glancing back towards club) He's leaving early. After this "set". He'll be out in a couple of minutes...They wait for a moment, listening to the sound of the musicin the distance. It is a blues number (GOODBYE BABY) Kellohums nonchalantly; Sidney glances at him with irritation,finding something gruesome in his relaxed manner.INT. POLICE CARThere are two plainclothes policemen inside, one at thewheel, the other in the back seat. The latter leans forwardto ask the former: 1ST POLICEMAN What's this deal tonight? MURPH (the 2nd policeman) One of the lieutenant's "surprise parties", I think.Murph's tone shows obvious repugnance. The 1st Policemanbroods for a moment; he adds in a quiet, but viciouslyresentful manner: 1ST POLICEMAN One of these days I'd like to turn in my badge and tangle with "POPSIE" myself - he's no good.RESUME KELLO AND SIDNEYSidney, increasingly uncomfortable, turns to Kello. SIDNEY Can't you wait up the block? It's not going to look so good, right in front of the club...To Kello this is a great joke. He laughs, enjoying Sidney'suneasiness. He begins to "cat and mouse" Sidney. KELLO (heavily humorous) It's nice, Sidney, that you give me this tip... SIDNEY (interjecting) - He's got them on him. KELLO (solemnly nodding his approval) ...And he's got them on him. I appreciate a thing like that - I appreciate where you are looking out for the virtue of the city.Sidney, annoyed at this sarcasm, moves past Kello, notdeigning to respond. As he goes by, Kello grasps himforcibly by the arm. KELLO What's your hurry, Snooks?CAMERA HAS PANNED to SHOOT towards the car out of whichemerges a second detective. SIDNEY (revolted) Take your hands off, Kello...Kello, holding Sidney, turns towards the second detective inbackground. KELLO Murph, how do you like this face? Why, I'll be darned -- it's melting! Something got you scared, Sidney...? Listen, rectify me a certain thing. Wasn't you kidding, Snooks, when you told J.J. I was fat...?Sidney jerks his arm away, rapidly retreats a few yards, asafe distance from Kello. CAMERA PANS with him to thebottom of the steps. SIDNEY Sleep in peace, Kello -- you're skinny -- but J.J. says you sweat!ANOTHER ANGLESidney in foreground, Kello and Murph beyond. Kello laughs;but obviously he would like to be nearer to Sidney. Perhapsto detain Sidney, Kello drawls: KELLO Is that a fact? He's a dilly, ain't he? By the by, what did he have against this boy? SIDNEY He goes out with girls. KELLO Well, I'll be darned. And what does J.J. think he SHOULD do? SIDNEY (impudently) Go out with DIFFERENT girls!KELLOHe moves forward a little. KELLO (softly now) I get the peculiar impression, Snooks, that you don't like me. Could I be wrong?SIDNEYHe turns swiftly and goes up the stairs out of Kello's reach. SIDNEY (as he goes) You could be right, you fat slob?ANOTHER ANGLEFrom half-way up the stairs. Sidney comes up the steps twoat a time. Kello and Murphy are seen beyond. KELLO (with a guffaw) Come back here, Sidney...I wanna chastise you!...FROM THE BRIDGESidney reaches the top. He comes along the pedestrian walkup to CAMERA, slowing down he turns across the rail andlooks down towards the square. CAMERA MOVES to take in thescene in WIDE ANGLE: Sidney in foreground, the police carand detectives below, the entrance to Robard's across thesquare. Sidney waits. In the distance we can hear themusic of Dallas' last number coming to an end.INT. ROBARD'S CLUBThe last bars of the number. Enthusiastic applause.STEVEHe responds to the ovation, nicely but a little wearily. Hegets down off the stand. There is too much noise to hearhis parting words to his fellow musicians, but it is clearthat he is urging them to stay without him. He walks offtowards the entrance to the club.D'ANGELOD'Angelo leaves the bar, in search of Steve. He sees...INT/EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTSteve is putting his guitar away in the case, collecting hisovercoat. In this gesture he is arrested by the sound ofD'Angelo's voice over scene. D'ANGELO (O.S.) (urgently) Steve!Steve, mildly startled, looks up.REVERSE ANGLEShooting into the club. D'Angelo comes forward from the bar.He is a little drunk, a little emotional. He waddles towardSteve, then takes the white carnation out of his buttonholeand puts it in the buttonhole of Steve's coat, saying: D'ANGELO (fondly) Press this in your friendship book...Love is a crooked thing, friendship not... (then, sheepishly) You see, it comes out in the wash of a few drinks -- I'm a very sentimental guy.RESUME ROBARD'S CLUBSteve is touched. STEVE I like it that way, Frank...don't change.He picks up his guitar case and makes for the door. D'Angelogoes a few paces with him, CAMERA TRACKING. Then it movespast D'Angelo, following Steve out onto the sidewalk, wherehe stands under the light of the club framed against thedark background of the square.FROM THE BRIDGECAMERA PANS from the small figure of Steve to include Sidneybig in foreground. Below him Kello and Murph turn towardsthe club.KELLOCLOSER ANGLE downward from Sidney's viewpoint. Kello turnsdeliberately to look at the bridge above.RESUME BRIDGESidney sees Kello's look; he nods deliberately. Below himwe see Kello and Murphy move swiftly to get into the car.Sidney, as if shrinking from a sight from which he doesn'twish to witness, draws back from the balustrade. He turnsand begins to walk towards CAMERA.POLICE CARA LOW ANGLE SHOOTING upwards at the car, the stairs to thebridge in background. As the doors of the car slam, itstarts to move forward and, abruptly, its headlamps areswitched on, glaring into the lens.EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTSteve, concerned only with his only melancholy thoughts,walks down the sidewalk under the bridge. The car headlampsilluminate him in their glare as they move across him.Steve, without undue, interest, glances back but continueson his way.CAMERA SHOOTS eastward towards the silhouette of the bridge.The Police Car turns as it comes out of the square under thebridge towards CAMERA. It moves slowly; again its headlampsflare into the lens. CAMERA PULLING BACK includes Steve inforeground. Behind him the Police Car slows down at thecurb; it barely stops as Kello slips out of the off-sidedoor; then the car moves forward along the curb leaving himbehind Steve. As the car goes out of picture past CAMERA,Kello strolls across the sidewalk, following Steve. Steve,looking past CAMERA, notices...REVERSE ANGLECAMERA SHOOTS toward 2nd Avenue. The Police Car slows downagain at the curb and Murph gets out of it, turning to faceSteve.RESUMESteve, seeing the man ahead of him, notes something slightlymenacing in his manner and slows down in his walk. Then,instinctively, he realizes that there is a second man behindhim, turns to look at Kello. Kello approaches. KELLO Hey, fella...!CAMERA MOVES CLOSER and CLOSER on Steve. In his face we seea growing sense of something wrong...INT. ROBARD'S CLUBA JUMP CUT. Loud noise, Chico Hamilton on the drums...INT. BARAnother jump cut in the sound track. Silence. It is anempty saloon, occupied only by a solitary drinker at one endof the long bar, nursing a beer, and by the bartender who ismaking out a dope sheet. Sidney enters, strides to the barand throws down a jangling half dollar. SIDNEY A bunch of nickels, mister!While the change is made, Sidney stands with cocked head,listening in reality or imagination to what is happeningdown the street. As the barman supplies the change, Sidneygoes to the juke box and loads it with nickels saying overhis shoulder: SIDNEY A double Johnny Walker Black. Or whatever you got. Scotch.Sidney puts both hands on the juke box as if leaning on it.With a click, drop and whirl, the music box comes to life;music blares out. Pausing a moment, Sidney turns backtoward the bar.SIDNEYHe reaches for his drink, downs it. He is shivering.INT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTOnce more, an abrupt sound transition: the jam session atfull blast. CAMERA FRAMES the musicians in foreground, butmoves away from them towards the entrance in background.Near the doorway there is some activity; an attendantbeckons to Robard who is drinking with D'Angelo. Robardmoves toward the entrance.INT/EXT. ROBARD'S CLUB - NIGHTCAMERA STARTS on D'Angelo at the bar. He looks off afterRobard. There is little concern in his face, but as hewatches, curiosity grows. He strolls out after theproprietor. CAMERA TRACKS with him as D'Angelo comes tojoin the little mob of two or three people on the sidewalk.PANNING, THE CAMERA now SHOOTS TOWARDS 2nd Avenue. Beyondthe bridge we can see the Police Car. Kello and Murphy arebeside one of the open doors (into which Steve has beencarried). Murphy turns back, walks a few paces across thesidewalk and picks up Steve's music case, which he carriesback to the Squad Car. He gets in and the car drives off. BOUNCER Hey, Robard, somebody just picked up one of your boys. ROBARD What sa -- Wha --REVERSE ANGLED'Angelo's face shows a bewildered astonishment and dismayas he turns back to the couple of people who are talking toRobard. D'Angelo is a little befuddled with drink. Hepushes towards Robard. D'ANGELO (dazed) Whatsa matter, Lou? ROBARD (turning to D'Angelo) I'm trying to find out myself. They just picked up Steve. LOITERER (blankly) Some fat guy... 2ND LOITERER A cop, a couple of cops. LOITERER They smeared him all over the lot.D'ANGELOHe turns to look back towards the direction in which thePolice Car has departed. He seems unable to comprehend whathe has heard; but a slow and terrible fear is dawning onhim... LAP DISSOLVE TO:Susan opens the door to discover Frank D'Angelo in lobby.He speaks at once: D'ANGELO I'm looking for your brother. Is he home? SUSAN No. (sensing the seriousness of his manner) Mr. D'Angelo - is something wrong?D'Angelo has no wish to become involved with the girl; hedoesn't reply. D'ANGELO When does he usually gets in, your night-owl brother? SUSAN Seldom before five. (again) What's the matter? Would you care to come in a minute?D'Angelo backs away, shaking his head. D'ANGELO No...no. Thanks.He turns back to the elevator. Susan closes the door, butslowly; she is watching D'Angelo. CAMERA MOVES WITH D'Angeloas he goes to the bell of the elevator and rings it. Heremains in this position, waiting for the elevator, but now(believing himself to be alone) he leans his head againstthe wall and begins to weep, quietly. Surprisingly, Susanis abruptly at his elbow, she seizes him forcibly by thearm, demanding: SUSAN (taut) Something's happened. To Steve.D'Angelo, with his face contorted in grief and bitterness,can no longer refuse to answer her. D'ANGELO (in a broken voice) He's in the hospital...He's under arrest, too... They planted reefer cigarettes on him...in his overcoat pocket.Susan is becoming hysterical. SUSAN (wildly) Where is he...I want to go to him...D'Angelo recovers his self control. There is force andauthority in his voice as he insists: D'ANGELO Miss Hunsecker, if you see him again they might...might kill him.Susan is sobered by his seriousness. SUSAN (slowly) Who is "they"? D'ANGELO Don't ask foolish questions. (then) Tell your brother I'm a sensible man. He understands only two things - power-politics and homage - tell him I came tonight to pay homage!INT. HALLWAY - HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSEThe elevator door opens and Sidney steps out: He crosses tothe door of the apartment, pushes the button. The bell isheard ringing inside. While he waits, Sidney produces ahandkerchief, dabs his face, straightens his tie; clearly heis trying to sober up. He goes to the bell push to ringagain. Now he notices something that had escaped himbefore: the door is not quite shut. He pushes it open.INT. HUNSECKER'S PENTHOUSEFrom inside. Sidney hesitates, enters tentatively.LONGER ANGLEThe apartment appears empty. Only one light is lit; theplace is eerie.RESUME SIDNEYSidney closes the door, goes into the main living room,CAMERA pans with him. Something chills him, he callssoftly, "J.J.?"ANOTHER ANGLESidney walks towards the study, there is nobody there either.He goes back towards the stairs to the upper floor; in doingso he repasses the door of Susan's bedroom, sees that it ishalf open, goes to look in.INT. BEDROOMFrom Sidney's viewpoint. The bed has been slept in but isunoccupied. The room is empty.On the seat at the foot of the bed is a drawer that has beenpulled out of the wardrobe; it contains a collection ofmiscellaneous objects, a snapshot album, letters, souvenirs,disarranged as if someone had been looking at them.SIDNEYHe looks at the empty room, disturbed.RESUME BEDROOMThe curtains of the window onto the terrace are blowing: thewindow is open. Sidney walks into shot form behind CAMERA.He calls: SIDNEY Susan?Susan steps into the room from the terrace, confrontingSidney. She is dressed, wearing the fur coat over a skirtand blouse. Her manner is very strange; the effect of thedrugs, no doubt.RESUME SIDNEYSidney is very uncomfortable in her presence; Susan is thelast person he wants to have conversation with. SIDNEY Where's J.J.?He retreats across the threshold of the bedroom, into theouter room.RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEYShe walks forwards. SUSAN He isn't here...INT. LIVING ROOMSidney stands back to let her pass. SIDNEY But he called and said...Susan comes out of the bedroom, walks past CAMERA. SUSAN No, I called...He studies the girl, says nothing.LONGER ANGLEShe walks listlessly across the room, moving like asomnambulist. SUSAN Mr. D'Angelo phoned about Steve...I went down to the hospital, but they wouldn't let me in. He promised to keep in touch with me - Mr. D'Angelo, I mean...RESUME SIDNEYHe watches her cautiously, not sure of how to deal with her. SIDNEY (carefully) It's all over town about Dallas... (moving towards her) How is he?SUSANA CLOSE UP. Susan's expression is blank; her eyes areunseeing. SUSAN He's...unconscious...There is a tone of great despair in her voice. Presently,she recovers, CAMERA eases back to include Sidney beyond.She glances at him. SUSAN I...I gave Steve up... (then) Why did you and J.J. do it?RESUME SIDNEYSidney looks at her, tensely. Her voice is so calm, socertain that Sidney finds it difficult to play-act innocence.He protests a little too loudly: SIDNEY Susie, if I get your meaning, you're pitching very wild balls. What -RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEYSusan interrupts, with a simplicity which is damaging. SUSAN Don't bother to lie, Sidney. (moving away) I don't care anymore.LONGER ANGLESidney decides that it is wiser not to argue. He assumes atolerant sympathy. He moves towards her. SIDNEY Listen, get a good night's sleep - tomorrow's another day. Feeling sorry for yourself won't help. SUSAN (shaking her head) I'm sorry about Steve, not myself. I'm even sorry for my brother. To be so lonely, without one real friend in the world - to have to hang on to a worthless rag of a girl like me because she's his only real family - SIDNEY (moving towards her again) Come on now, chickie, why don't you go to bed...?Now she turns to him. SUSAN And I'm sorry for you, too, Sidney. You're going down with the ship. SIDNEY What ship?She walks past him, still aimlessly wandering about theroom; then she turns back, indicates herself. SUSAN THIS ship.She studies Sidney. SUSAN Don't you know how my brother will see you after tonight? You'll be the man who drove his little stainless sister to suicide...REVERSE ANGLEShaken, Sidney decides to ridicule the implied threat. SIDNEY Honey, I'll just have to smile at that.He walks past CAMERA.RESUME SUSANSidney walks into shot, going past her on his way to the door. SIDNEY (as he goes) It's late and I'm going home...Susan, in foreground, remains quite still, says nothing. Inbackground, Sidney slows down, his confidence failing him;he looks back at her.SIDNEYHe can't go. Probably, she's bluffing. But he can't becertain. He is suddenly angry.RESUME SUSAN AND SIDNEYHe strides back towards her. SIDNEY Susie, whatever problems you have with J.J. - I didn't invent them! What're you blaming me for? If you learned to let out your hatred you would be better off! SUSAN Like you? SIDNEY Yeah! Like me! I don't choke on my own gall - I fight back! Let THEM choke, not me! SUSAN I'm not a man, Sidney, I'm - SIDNEY I know that bit - you're a girl; you need a man to give you strength! So what do you pick such weak sisters for? Don't you know yet that you fight fire with fire, not with tear drops? SUSAN I could almost forgive you if what you did to Steve came from jealousy and love... SIDNEY (quickly) I didn't do anything! SUSAN ...but you did it for greed, Sidney - and that's pathetic.She moves past him. He grips her, turning her around. SIDNEY Don't run away - I was always the man for you! I'm talking to you out of two years of silence - listen to what I say! Inside of six months - SUSAN (helplessly) Please, Sidney, I can't stand this -CAMERA HOLDS Sidney and Susan in foreground. But it is nowshooting towards the door of the apartment. A PANNINGmovement has included a figure at the other end of the bigroom...HUNSECKERHe is taking off his overcoat near the door of the apartment.We don't know how long he has been there, how much he hasoverheard. Without appearing to be consciously spying,Hunsecker is listening to Sidney's voice over scene. SIDNEY (over scene) Listen to me, lunatic! All your life you've been doing penance for crimes you never committed! I could change that, I'd teach you, I'd show you - !CAMERA PANS round with Hunsecker who strolls across theroom, making his presence known. Sidney breaks off, dropshis hands, releasing the girl. Susan turns towards Hunsecker.Hunsecker lays his briefcase and papers on the table. Headdresses Susan without looking at her. HUNSECKER Go to bed, Susie. It's late...Susan makes no move. Hunsecker glances at her, sees Sidneybut treats Sidney as if he were invisible. HUNSECKER (to Susan) What is he doing here?Susan walks towards Hunsecker. SUSAN I called him.Sidney moves forward also. SIDNEY (carefully) She was depressed - she heard about Dallas.Hunsecker still ignores his existence, he walks past Susancarrying his papers to the desk. Susan turns, watching him. HUNSECKER ("controlling" his feelings) That subject it might be better not to start me on. (angry) He's made all the papers tonight.Hunsecker studies the item in the paper.SUSANShe is staring at her brother. Suddenly, she is unable tosuffer his authoritative air; she goes to him; he ignoresher...HUNSECKER AND SUSANChildishly, she snatches the paper from his hand, throws itto the floor. He looks at her. Patiently, as with ahysterical infant, he stoops, recovers the paper. HUNSECKER ("mildly") Is there something you wanted to say...? (as she does not answer, continuing with growing viciousness) I've put up with a lot of your guff, Susie, because you were a child. But you're a woman now and I suspect, despite my best intentions, more than a bit of a slut...SUSANHer head comes up sharply at the insult.HUNSECKER AND SUSAN AND SIDNEYHunsecker glances at Sidney, clearly reminding them of thecompromising situation in which they were found. Sidneymoves to answer. SIDNEY (quickly) J.J., if you think - SUSAN (cutting in) Don't explain, Sidney... It doesn't matter now... HUNSECKER (continuing) Whose arms will I have to pry you out of next? Not that I don't think you didn't invite it! I know that look of yours, that pose of being wronged - and how it arouses the crusading instinct in even a Sidney Falco -Hunsecker's rising tide of brutality is having some effecton Susan, and Sidney, fearing for her, tries to intervene. SIDNEY I was trying to build her up, not tear her down - HUNSECKER (viciously) Is that why you were romancing her, you mutt! (turning back to Susan) Let's call it quits, my dear. I'd like it fine if you found another home. That means the front door is open! Pack your things, rent a moving van and GIT! (pacing the room) And as for marriage, let me hit you with a few choice facts: you aren't ready for marriage! You're incompetent - a capricious and shaky frail with a sick fatality for frail and useless men!Susan is staring sightlessly at the floor near Hunsecker'sfeet. After a moment she turns and moves to the door of herbedroom; her walk is a little unsteady; she goes inside,closes the door in Hunsecker's face.INT. BEDROOMWith the door closed, she leans against it as if afraid offalling. She gropes for the door handle, finds the key andturns it.INT. LIVING ROOM - HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYHunsecker is studying the closed door. HUNSECKER (to himself) Another crisis past. (walking away) She'll be fast asleep in five minutes, loaded with those headache pills...SIDNEYSidney seems not to hear this remark. He is concentrated onthe door; he moves hesitantly towards it, apprehensive.CAMERA includes Hunsecker in background. HUNSECKER Now we'll get to you, Sidney. (turning to Sidney) As far as the column is concerned - tonight you have forfeited every ethical consideration I ever felt for you...Much more concerned with his anxiety for Susan, Sidneyinterrupts. SIDNEY (cutting in) Look, J.J., I'll grant you anything you want. (as Hunsecker is about to interrupt) Susie's off her rocker tonight! Go in and see what she's doing! Go in and talk to her quietly - unless you want a corpse!Sidney's conviction is impressive. But Hunsecker isunwilling to admit the danger, he continues. HUNSECKER (acid) Let me finish what I started to say -Seeing that Hunsecker is not taking his advice, Sidneystrides swiftly to the door of Susan's bedroom. He knockson it.INT. BEDROOMSHOOTING TOWARDS the door. Susan is sitting on the bed inforeground. In a methodical, hypnotic way, she is destroyingthe contents of the drawer, tearing letters into smallfragments. Sidney's voice is heard outside: "Susie!" Susanappears not to hear it; CAMERA TRACKS closer to her.Sidney's voice is heard again, louder: "Susie!" Susan turnssharply towards the door.SUSANA CLOSE UP. Susan rises to her feet, staring at the door.She begins to back away from it.RESUME REVERSE ANGLECAMERA PULLS BACK as Susan glances down at the record playerbeside her. She turns the knob. We hear the clatter of arecord dropping and music begins. The tune is "The Sage."INT. LIVING ROOMCLOSE SHOT of Sidney. He hears the music starting.HUNSECKERHunsecker has come forward. But now, as he listens to thegramaphone record playing in the bedroom, Hunsecker relaxes,assuming that this is a sign that Sidney's suspicions areunfounded. HUNSECKER (coming forward) What a cornball you are, Sidney...CAMERA TRACKS to include Sidney. He does not shareHunsecker's confidence; he knocks again, calling: SIDNEY (anxiously) Susie! (in growing fear) SUSIE!CAMERA TRACKS closer to Sidney. As he tries the doorknob,CAMERA TILTS DOWN. Sidney's hand tries the doorknob, findsit locked, shakes it forcefully.DETAILFrom inside the bedroom. We see the doorknob rattled.RESUME SUSANA CLOSE UP. She realizes that Sidney means to insist. Sheturns away towards the blowing curtains in background.RESUME LIVING ROOMA DETAIL SHOT. Sidney's hand is still shaking the doorknob.He releases it. CAMERA PULLS BACK to a TWO SHOT of Sidneyand Hunsecker as Sidney retreats from the door inapprehension. Now Hunsecker has begun to share Sidney'sanxiety. He moves to the door, knocks and then pounds on it. HUNSECKER (with authority) Susie, this is J.J.! Open up!SUSANA CLOSE UP. She comes forward past the blowing curtains.The wind whips at her hair. Over scene we hear the rumbleof the traffic on Broadway far below.RESUME HUNSECKERHe is pounding on the door again. CAMERA makes a quick panto Sidney who, in a split second, realizes that Susan mayhave gone out on the balcony. He turns, dashes towards thestudy to look out on the terrace.RESUME SUSANShe has now started to climb onto the parapet. Sidney leapsinto shot, dragging her bodily off the parapet and out ofshot. We hear Susan cry out, a hysterical gasp. CAMERA,looking through the windows of Susan's bedroom, sees thedoor fly open as Hunsecker bursts into the room. He looksswiftly around, advances towards the open window.Exasperated by the sound of the gramaphone, he switches itoff; he steps out onto the terrace. CAMERA PANS with him ashe turns to look back into the study where Susan's inanimatefigure is sprawled on the floor, half across the lowupholstered footstool. Sidney, white and shaking, isstanding over her.REVERSE ANGLECAMERA at floor level. Susan is framed in foreground. Thelower half of Sidney can be seen beside her. Hunsecker ison the terrace in background. Shocked, he moves quicklyinto the room.HUNSECKERA CLOSE UP. He looks down at his sister. He is badlyshaken. The sharp bite of terror produces a reaction ofsomething akin to anger. But he swiftly controls it. Hemoves past CAMERA.REVERSE ANGLEHunsecker stoops into shot. Tenderly, he lifts the girl'sbody to get it into the arm chair. Susan is quite lifeless,limp with the dead weight of a creature that has lost anyinstinct for self-preservation. But as she feels herbrother's arms, and as she recognizes who it is, she breaksout in hysteria. SUSAN (wildly) No! NO! Don't touch me! HUNSECKER (sharply) Susan!...But Susan strikes at him, a vicious gesture of revulsion.Hunsecker lets her go. She falls into the arm chair, herface hidden from him; she begins to sob. SUSAN (her body shaking) Go away!...Go away!...Hunsecker would like to comfort her, but he dare not touchher again for fear of inviting another rebuff. He is deeplyhurt and wounded. Embarrassed that Sidney should watch thismoment, Hunsecker rises. To cover his emotion, he walks tothe tray of drinks in background; he pours a brandy andcomes back. Stooping, he offers it to Susan. Her onlyreaction is again to wrench herself away from him, facingthe opposite direction. SUSAN (sobbing bitterly) GO AWAY!Hunsecker sets down the drink, stands up. HUNSECKER (in a choked voice) Talk to her, Sidney... SIDNEY (hushed) Talk to her yourself...Over scene the telephone rings. It is ignored. WhileHunsecker looks down at the girl, helplessly, the telephonecontinues to ring.SUSANA CLOSE UP. It is she who first becomes aware of thetelephone. Her weeping has stopped now. Slowly, she raisesher head. CAMERA EASES BACK to include Sidney beyond her;he notes this movement, seeing in it a revival of the girl'swill to live; he is moved.ANOTHER ANGLEThe telephone is framed in foreground, Susan beyond. Itcontinues to ring. As Hunsecker crosses to his desk to pickup the instrument, CAMERA PULLS BACK. Hunsecker speaks: HUNSECKER Yuh...Yuh... (he listens) Just a minute... (turning back to Susan) Susie, it's Mr. D'Angelo - from the hospital...RESUME SUSANA CLOSE SHOT. She raises her head higher, still weakly. Wesee in her face a mixture of terror and hope.REVERSE ANGLEHunsecker comes forward to set down the telephone in frontof her, on the footstool. Hunsecker and Sidney watch. Shereaches a hand, which is still trembling, picks up thereceiver. Her voice as she speaks to the instrument isbarely audible. SUSAN Yes...yes...yes...Presently, she hangs up. When she becomes aware thatHunsecker and Sidney are waiting for an explanation, shetells them: SUSAN (speaking with difficulty) Steve...is out of danger...HUNSECKERHunsecker nods. He already knows this. Then: HUNSECKER (soberly) That means a lot to you?SUSANShe does not look at him, she lowers her eyes but answerswith a nod. And then, more positively: SUSAN Yes.RESUME HUNSECKERHe studies the girl. His face has hardened. He moves,beginning to pace. (And also beginning his 'manipulations'.) HUNSECKER But I have to warn you, Susie - for your own sake - he'll still do time...CAMERA FOLLOWS Hunsecker. It now takes in Sidney who isstanding beside him. Sidney has begun to stare fixedly atHunsecker. (He is now realizing that Hunsecker, although hehas been faced with this demonstration of the girl'swillingness to kill herself, has still learned nothing, isstill continuing in the old pattern.) HUNSECKER (continuing, warming to his theme) He's a hop-head - that's a felony in New York. I can try, of course, to...SIDNEYA CLOSE UP. Revolted, Sidney breaks in: SIDNEY You're unholy, J.J.! You'd rather kill this girl than let her go!GROUP SHOTHunsecker wheels on Sidney, bellowing: HUNSECKER (in blind rage) GET OUT OF THIS HOUSE!Sidney, with equal heat, spins round to Susan, crying outbefore he has time to check himself: SIDNEY (impulsively) Susie, YOU get out of this house! - Get out before it's too late!SIDNEYSidney has gone too far now to pull back. Inevitably, hecontinues. During the speech, CAMERA PULLS BACK to includeSusan and then Hunsecker. SIDNEY (with sincerity) Listen with care - this will cost me everything, so you know I'm telling you the truth! HUNSECKER (trying to stop him) You're incapable of the truth... SIDNEY (who will not by stopped) Susie, there's nothing wrong with Dallas! (turning toward Hunsecker) Your brother and I arranged it all. And if the Leslie boy is still a squooshy item in your life, forget it! - your brother arranged that one, too! I don't usually give away presents; but this is my gift to you: Get out of here! Leave this man!During the latter part of the speech, Susan rises slowly toher feet, staring first at Sidney and then, with fearfulsignificance, at her brother. Hunsecker does not look ather; he is concentrated on Sidney. Twice he has been aboutto demolish Sidney, but he now stops, A THOUGHT IN HIS HEAD.HUNSECKERHe is perfectly controlled, smiling. HUNSECKER Like most Italians, Sidney's got a big gift for dramatics. I, however, prefer the cool and stubborn facts. Sidney has not appeared in my column in weeks - check that fact with Mary. That leads right to another fact: Sidney had nothing to lose tonight! To the contrary, dear - ONLY HIS OBVIOUS GREED TO BEAT HIS WAY BACK INTO THE COLUMN EXPLAINS HIS ACCUSATIONS AGAINST ME! In brief, BLACKMAIL!Hunsecker pauses impressively.GROUP SHOTFraming Hunsecker in foreground, Susan and Sidney beyond.Susan listens to Hunsecker objectively, with a mountingsense of his diseased reasoning. HUNSECKER (continuing) Mind you, not that one true fact didn't come out of Sidney's mouth tonight: self-admittedly, he committed a vicious crime of jealousy against Steve Dallas! (pausing) Now we have to clear Dallas, don't we?...But I'll have to sacrifice him... (he indicates Sidney) ...to do it. (turning to Susan) Am I doing right?SUSANShe is looking at Hunsecker. HUNSECKER (O.S.) (over scene) Yes or no, Susie...?Slowly, Susan nods.REVERSE ANGLESHOOTING ACROSS Susan onto Hunsecker. Hunsecker turns awayfrom her and walks to the telephone. He picks it up andbegins to speak. While the scene continues, we hear hisvoice off screen, speaking to the phone, saying: "This isJ.J. Hunsecker. I want you to get a message through toLieutenant Kello. Ask him to ring me back. It's urgent."Susan backs slowly away from Hunsecker. Then she turns intoCAMERA, which TRACKS with her and includes Sidney. Susanlooks at Sidney and then, ashamed, avoids his eye. ButSidney comes nearer to her. Susan is deeply distressed. SUSAN (very quietly) He's sick.She looks again at Sidney. Deliberately, Sidney nods.Susan walks toward her bedroom.INT. BEDROOMSusan comes into the room, finding shelter from therevelation which has so appalled her. Inexorably Sidneyfollows her. He comes across the threshold, closes the door. SIDNEY (quietly) Yes, he's sick and you're the only idiot alive who didn't know it.A pause. Sidney moves closer to her. SIDNEY But what are you going to do?There are some tears of pity in Susan's eyes. Once more shemoves away from Sidney. Sidney senses that her compassionfor Hunsecker might easily lead her once again to slip backinto the trap. He insists: SIDNEY (with emphasis) You don't owe your brother a cup of water!Another pause. Sidney again repeats: SIDNEY What are you going to do?She moves away from Sidney, CAMERA following her. After amoment, she answers: SUSAN Go to Steve.SIDNEYSidney is moved, having done his solitary act of chivalry.To hide his feelings, he is harsh: SIDNEY (sharply) For Pete's sake, straighten out the seams of your stockings - comb your hair - don't be so helpless all the time!CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Susan. From the other room, wehear the telephone ring. Sidney turns and goes quickly out.After a moment, Susan looks back at the door through whichSidney has disappeared.INT. LIVING ROOMHunsecker is framed in foreground, speaking into thetelephone. Sidney is in background, outside the door ofSusan's bedroom. Hunsecker is fully aware of Sidney'spresence, as he says: HUNSECKER (to phone) No, he's admitted that, Harry. My kid sister's a witness.SIDNEYA CLOSE SHOT. He watches Hunsecker with a curious detachment.Producing a cigarette, he lights it and then looks uptowards Hunsecker. HUNSECKER (O.S.) (over scene) No, he admits he planted the stuff on the Dallas boy...RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYHunsecker framed in foreground, Sidney beyond. Hunseckerhas at the same time been tapping a cigarette on the desk.Sidney walks across to Hunsecker, offers the lighted match.HUNSECKER - REVERSE ANGLEAs he accepts the light he continues speaking to the phone: HUNSECKER Yeah...jealousy.RESUME HUNSECKER AND SIDNEYSidney turns on his heel, walking out of the apartment. HUNSECKER (continuing) ...He's been trying to make my sister behind my back.CAFE ON BROADWAYKello is in a phone booth. KELLO (to phone) Oh, that's serious, J.J. Real reprehensible...Kello leans out of the booth into the cafe signaling throughthe window to the street outside where the squad car pullsahead to a position ready for him outside the door. KELLO (to phone) Don't worry, I'll get there. I'm on Broadway now.Kello hangs up. Hurries out. We see him get into the squadcar which rapidly accelerates.INT. HUNSECKER'S LIVING ROOMHunsecker has hung up. He stares at the telephone for amoment. Then he moves towards Susan's door, CAMERA TRACKINGwith him. He comes to the threshold, looks at Susan who isstanding in much the same position in which Sidney left her.SUSANUnaware that her brother is watching her, she picks up thefur coat on the bed. (She is about to start packing herbelongings.) She turns as she hears Hunsecker speak. HUNSECKER (over scene) That's a pretty coat.REVERSE ANGLESHOOTING ACROSS Susan, towards Hunsecker. Hunsecker comesinto the room. HUNSECKER (continuing) - but it's about time you had a new one.Susan turns squarely to face him.RESUME SUSANShe braces herself to tell him: SUSAN (soberly) I'm leaving, J.J.RESUME REVERSE ANGLEHe does not sense any danger in the seriousness of her tone(or, if he does, refuses to recognize it.) HUNSECKER (with a faint scoff) Don't kid a kidder. I'll see you for breakfast around eleven.Without waiting for a response, Hunsecker goes out, closingthe door. Susan stares at it for a moment. Then she movesto get a small suitcase which she lays on the bed.TERRACEHunsecker opens the windows onto the terrace, comes out andlooks over the parapet, (looking to see how far Sidney hasgot, hoping to see Kello's squad car.)RESUME SUSANShe completes her simple packing, closing the suitcase.With a gesture that is obviously automatic, she starts toput on the fur coat; then she halts, realizing what she isdoing. She pauses; CAMERA MOVES CLOSER. Now, deliberatelyshe throws the coat back on the bed. CAMERA PANS down withthe gesture. She looks down at the coat, the discardedsymbol of her dependence upon her brother. CAMERA PULLSBACK again as she takes a quick look round, then goes totake a duffle coat from the wardrobe. She throws this overher arm, picks up the suitcase, goes to the door.INT. LIVING ROOMSusan comes out of the door. She moves with a soberdetermination, expecting to find Hunsecker in the room.CAMERA TRACKS with her. But then she realizes that Hunseckerhas gone out on the terrace. She takes a step or twotowards him, then pauses.HUNSECKERFrom Susan's viewpoint, SHOOTING through the big glasswindows. Hunsecker is at the parapet. He is impatientlylooking down into Broadway.SUSANA CLOSE UP. She now realizes that there is no point insaying goodbye to him: she has already told him that she isleaving and, if she becomes involved in further argumentwith him, it can do no good. Yet there is some emotion onher face as she takes a last look at her brother; she turnsaway.HUNSECKERFraming him in foreground at the parapet. Susan can be seenthrough the windows before she disappears to the door.Hunsecker reacts as he catches sight of a vehicle on Broadwaybelow...EXT. BROADWAYThe squad car comes down Broadway at speed.EXT. DUFFY'S SQUARESidney is walking across the square. The squad car appearsin foreground; it pauses hardly at all as Kello slips out ofit, and starts to move after Sidney. Then the caraccelerates round Duffy Square to cut Sidney off on theother side.SIDNEYSidney comes up towards CAMERA. Seeing something ahead, hehalts...SQUAD CARFrom Sidney's viewpoint. The car breaks to a stop. It'sdoor opens and a detective gets out slowly. It is Phil.RESUME SIDNEYSidney is framed in foreground, the squad car beyond.Sidney knows what this means. He starts to speak before heturns to look over his shoulder. SIDNEY Hello, Harry...REVERSE ANGLEKello, moving silently up behind Sidney, slows down, amusedat Sidney's prescience. KELLO Hi! (coming to join Sidney) I just been on the phone to J.J.Kello's manner is almost affectionate. He shakes his head,admonishing Sidney. KELLO (mildly) You been a bad boy, Sidney. J.J.'s going to write about you in his column tomorrow.REVERSE ANGLESHOOTING ACROSS Kello onto Sidney. Sidney's smile is tired. SIDNEY I thought he would. KELLO Yeah... (then) And another thing - he's gonna say you 'resisted arrest'... (as Sidney nods) You know J.J....!Sidney turns away to look back towards Phil. Then, takingKello totally by surprise, he wheels, striking the copviciously across the mouth.KELLOKello's head jerks back. Recovering at once, he guffaws,lurches into CAMERA with a sudden vicious movement. Thereis a sharp guttural cry over scene.LONGER ANGLEPhil runs forward towards the figures of Sidney and Kelloseen beyond him. In doing so, he blocks the view so that wedo not clearly see the violence with which Kello strikesSidney down. Phil, in foreground, is seen to relax. Whenhe moves aside, clearing the view, Sidney is writhing on theground at Kello's feet.CLOSER ANGLEKello wipes his knuckles on his handkerchief. He signals toPhil to help lift the body at his feet. Phil enters shotand they raise Sidney, half carrying, half dragging him outof shot.LONG SHOTThe cops carry the figure of Sidney Falco across DuffySquare; they bundle him into the police car. The pigeons inthe square, circle.HUNSECKER'S TERRACECAMERA LOOKS down towards Duffy Square in the distance. Thepolice car can be seen moving off, circling the square anddisappearing southward on Broadway. CAMERA PULLS BACK toinclude Hunsecker in foreground.HUNSECKERA CLOSE SHOT, SHOOTING sharply upward at Hunsecker. Helooks down, quiet impassively, and there is a slightlyinsane grandeur, a paranoiac superiority in the way that heturns back, dismissing Sidney from his thoughts.INT. LIVING ROOMCAMERA SHOOTS towards the closed door of Susan's room.Hunsecker walks into the shot, stops before the door. Hebegins to take off his tie and unbutton his shirt, clearlypreparing to go to bed. As an after-thought, he comes backto the door, addresses it: HUNSECKER (gently) Susie? (getting no answer) Are you in bed...?CAMERA MOVES CLOSER. It is at a low level, still emphasizingthe man's dignity. He strolls for a few paces. HUNSECKER (continuing) I don't have to tell you, of course, that I cleared your boyfriend's name; I didn't let you down...CAMERA has now moved so that we are shooting past Hunseckeronto Susan's door. He gets no answer except silence.HUNSECKERA CLOSE SHOT, REVERSE ANGLE. We now see in his face aflicker of fear. With what is clearly an effort, hereassumes a confident manner. HUNSECKER ...I was saving this news for breakfast, but I think I'll jump the gun! I'M GONNA GIVE YOU AND DALLAS THE BIGGEST WEDDING THIS TOWN HAS EVER SEEN!Still no answer from inside the bedroom. Hunsecker's forcedexpression remains unnaturally fixed upon his face. Hecalls out: HUNSECKER Susie...?INT. BEDROOMThe room is quite empty. CAMERA SHOOTS across the bedtowards the door in background. Susan's discarded fur coatlies on the bed. And the doors of the wardrobe are open.Hunsecker's voice can be heard continuing over scene: HUNSECKER (O.S.) (outside) I'm getting the Mayor to perform the ceremony and - NO, I think I'll fly the Governor down from Albany... (a pause) Do you hear...?A pause. Then, very tentatively, the bedroom door is opened. HUNSECKER (O.S.) (outside) Are you listening?...Now he opens the door and comes in.HUNSECKERA BIG CLOSE UP. The sight of the empty room freezes hisface for a moment. His eyes look round.INT. BEDROOMFrom Hunsecker's viewpoint. A PANNING SHOT, from the opendoor of the cupboard to the fur coat. CAMERA PULLS BACK toinclude Hunsecker. He steps to the bed, picks up the coat.REVERSE ANGLEThere is a dazed, incredulous look on his face. But, as heglances over his shoulder, CAMERA ZOOMS PAST him towards alittle door in the wall behind him: It is ajar, showing acouple of inches of light.RESUME HUNSECKEROnce again Hunsecker reassures himself that Susan must bebehind the door. But his voice is even more false as hedeclares: HUNSECKER (a note of anger appearing in his voice) Susie!...You won't threaten me!...Nobody walks out on J.J. Hunsecker!CAMERA NOW MOVES CLOSER and closer to Hunsecker. The ANGLEis a weird one, tilting grotesquely upward. HUNSECKER (continuing) You need me - you all need me!...Hunsecker, his fists clenching fiercely at the fur coat,walks towards the door. CAMERA PANS with him. He stands afew inches from the narrow opening. He seems about to pushthe door open further, but is afraid to do so.INT. BATHROOMCAMERA SHOOTS ACROSS the bathtub, showing enough of the tinyroom to make it clear that it, too, is completely empty.Through the slit in the door, we can see only a glimpse ofthe movement of Hunsecker outside. Hunsecker's voicecontinues: HUNSECKER (O.S.) "The Lord is my Shepherd; I shall not want". (a sneering laugh) That's bunk in a book! I'm the Shepherd of millions of little men and women!...INT. BEDROOMA DOWNWARD ANGLE, SHOOTING past Hunsecker to the door. AsHunsecker retreats from the door, he is still clutching thefur coat. He stands alone in the middle of the room and hisgestures are a little wild. CAMERA rises higher to shootdown at Hunsecker, alone in the little room. HUNSECKER (continuing) ...I don't ask them to get on their knees, but they come to me for advice and guidance! Who are you to reject me!With an increasingly eccentric manner, Hunsecker strides outof the bedroom door into the living room again.INT. LIVING ROOMA similar ANGLE, SHOOTING down on Hunsecker as he comes outof the bedroom. But as he starts to roam the vast room,CAMERA rises higher still, pulling backwards and upwards toa LONG SHOT which holds the entirety of the big room in allits ugliness. HUNSECKER (continuing) What makes YOU fit to sit in judgment on a man like me. Only a great person understands another great person, and that leaves you out!Hunsecker is now addressing the whole of the apartment, nolonger pretending even to himself, that the girl is stilllistening. He moves off towards the windows to the terracewhere the curtains are now blowing in the morning wind. Hegoes out towards the terrace, his voice becoming moredistant - a man shouting empty nonsense, addressing no one. HUNSECKER (continuing) - That leaves you ALL out! You're pigmies! You're all sick, weak midgets! I'm proud to be alone!...EXT. BROADWAYCAMERA SHOOTS STEEPLY UP towards the top of the Brill Bldg.(At this angle Hunsecker's terrace will not be visible butits position is established in relationship to the Budweisersign.) CAMERA PANS DOWN to pick up the figure of SusanHunsecker as she pushes her way out of the brass doors ontoBroadway.CLOSER ANGLESusan pauses on the sidewalk. She stays there for a moment.She breathes in the fresh morning air, looking around withthe expression of someone who sees the world with new eyes.Then she starts up Broadway - away from the Times Squarearea. The girl's step has a purpose in it; she hasconfidence and courage. Music for the end titles is quiet,simple and lyrical. END OF PICTURE 