INT. ROOM - DAY (EFX)GIDEON, a strongly built elderly black man, is sitting at atable. On the table is a large bowl of fruit. A crochetedtablecloth hangs over the side of the table. Gideon isdressed in a white suit and wearing a pair of well-polishedwing-tip shoes. His hat almost covers his eyes, which are twopoints of greenish coals. The fruit in the bowl is engulfedin flames.The flames look as if they are DRIPPING from the tableclothto the floor. Gideon's shoes start to SMOULDER. His shoesBURST INTO FLAMES which spread up his pants leg. His headfalls forward as if he had suddenly fallen to sleep. Hetwiddles his thumbs very slowly in a circle. He crosses hislegs as if to get comfortable.The camera moves to a CLOSE UP of his burning shoes. Theimage of his feet begins to appear through his shoes; theflames fade; the background changes as we DISSOLVE TO:EXT. GIDEON'S BACKYARD - DAYGideon's bare feet are resting on reddish dry earth. Gideonis sitting in his backyard under a fruit tree with a Bibleresting in his hands.His house is a small, neatly painted bungalow in SouthCentral Los Angeles. Corn, tomatoes, other vegetables grow inthe yard. Chickens scratch around.He slowly awakens; his hands are trembling. He looks aroundand sees the chickens. He looks up at the sky and sighs, withsome relief.SUNNY, Gideon's grandson, five years old, has been watchinghim from the back window of the house. He leaves the window.INT. HALLWAY - DAYDOLLY SHOT OF SUNNYSunny peeps in the workroom. Through the crack in the door, aWoman waves to Sunny. INT. WORKROOM - DAYThe room is nearly filled with pregnant women and theirhusbands. SUZIE, Gideon's wife, late 60's or early 70's, apicture of health, is giving a last bit of instruction beforethe class ends. Some of the people are already preparing toleave. SUZIE Remember, especially you men, that working together now will already have formed a bond before the child arrives. The woman is very sensitive.Somewhere in the room a Male Voice booms out. VOICE (O.S.) Tell me about it.There is a bit of LAUGHTER as all start putting away theirthings.EXT. BACKYARD - DAYGideon looks over at the chickens, scratching around in thegarden. He calls to them, but they don't respond. He puts hisshoes on and walks towards the back door of the house.Entering the house, he stops and waits inside the doorpeeping out. In a sort of devilish manner he talks tohimself. GIDEON Spoiling the little foxes that spoil my vines.EXT. BACKYARD - DAY Shot of the backyard. Nothing. Suddenly, with the grace andsuspicion of alley cats, kids jump over Gideon's back fence,look around timidly, and start climbing up his fruit tree.Gideon walks down the steps slowly while humming in a deepvoice. He turns the water on and walks over to the tree,trapping the kids. Dangling legs, hanging from the tree, tryto scurry up the tree to safety. Gideon sprays the tree withwater. Wet kids fall out of the tree and in one motion leapthe fence. Gideon cuts the water off and slaps the dirt offhis hands. He is quite pleased with himself.EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAYOne of the wet kids is watching Gideon as he goes back insidethe house. The boy signals the others who slowly follow insingle file. They jump the fence and climb back up the tree.They let their half-eaten fruit fall to the ground.INT. BEDROOM - DAYSuzie opens a letter and a picture of a baby falls out. Suzielooks at the picture before reading the letter.She tries to find a place for it among the other babypictures that cover the entire mirror on the dresser. Gideoncomes in and starts to undress. GIDEON My mind plays tricks on me. Is it okay if I take a bath now? SUZIE Everyone is gone. Rhonda is in the bathroom.RHONDA, Gideon's granddaughter, 13 years old, comes out ofthe bathroom. GIDEON I was looking through my trunk and I can't find my toby. RHONDA What's that? GIDEON It is a charm that my great grandmother made me.Everyone notices the worried look on Gideon's face. SUZIE It will show up. RHONDA If my daddy calls, tell him I walked home. SUZIE You be careful and thank you for looking after Sunny.Sunny is asleep on the sofa with a half-eaten apple ready tofall out of his hand. GIDEON Babe Brother and his wife are taking advantage of a situation. I hate to be mean to people but picking Sunny up when they feel like it has to come to an end. Now I'm going to ask him how come he couldn't be at your birthday. SUZIE Don't bother the poor boy. It just takes some people a little longer to figure out who they are. GIDEON I don't know how two brothers can be so different.EXT. MRS. BAKER'S BACKYARD - DAYSKIP BAKER, who is thirteen, crawls out of his pigeon cage,holding two birds that he throws up in the air. He climbsupon the garage roof and throws rocks at the birds to keepthem flying. He WHISTLES and YELLS at them.CLOSE UP OF BIRDS FLYINGAs the birds circle Skip's house, they do backward rolls anddeath grips. Skip throws more rocks to keep them flying. Therocks land on Gideon's roof.The SOUND of a person trying to learn how to play a TRUMPETbreaks the pleasant SOUNDS of the pigeons popping their wingsand flying in circles over the house.INT. MRS. BAKER'S HOUSE, RODNEY'S BEDROOM - DAYRODNEY BAKER is about nine. He stands next to a shadedwindow, trying to finger the right valves on his trumpet. Hetries to hit a high note, but only succeeds in making anawful screeching sound.EXT. MRS. BAKER'S HOUSE - DAYA group of kids walking by Rodney's window shout insultingthings about his horn playing. KIDS Shut up! Go help your mama wash dishes!INT. GIDEON'S KITCHEN - DAYSuzie is standing over an egg that just fell on the floor.The SCREECHING SOUND of the trumpet from next door isinterrupted by the doorbell. Suzie cannot decide on what todo, to clean the egg up or answer the door. The doorbellkeeps RINGING.EXT. FRONT PORCH - DAYTwo uniformed Police Officers stand impatiently at the door.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYSuzie invites OFFICER SCOTT and OFFICER DAVIS in. Both menare white and are in their mid-twenties. Officer Davis doesmost of the questioning. DAVIS We have a complaint from one of your neighbors about a rooster crowing in the mornings.INT. BATHROOM - DAYGideon is shaving with a straight razor and humming tohimself, obviously in a good mood. Suzie sticks her head in. SUZIE The police are here to talk to you about the chickens.The good mood that Gideon was in dissolves quickly. Gideonwipes the soap off his face and throws the towel down. Suzieleaves. Gideon brushes his hair and adjusts his bathrobe.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYGideon comes in, still adjusting his bathrobe. GIDEON What can I do for you, Officer?Suzie returns to the kitchen to clean the egg on the floor.Officer Scott keeps her in view. DAVIS You know it is against the city ordinance to keep chickens or live stock. GIDEON I always had chickens, ducks and whatnots. DAVIS Not anymore, not in the city. GIDEON We grow most of our own food. The money I get from social security, my pension and my wife's work, keeps us living on the edge. What choice do people like us have. DAVIS Well, you just have to move further out. GIDEON Now how far would further out be? DAVIS I'm not here to argue, sir. SCOTT You guys don't make anything illegal, do you? GIDEON Like what may I ask? SCOTT You might have a distillery pumping out barrels of moonshine.Suzie looks at Scott for a moment and goes into the kitchen.Gideon is about to lose control. Davis heads off theconfrontation. DAVIS Look, just get rid of the chickens and you all have a nice day.Gideon stands in the doorway watching the Police go down thesteps. GIDEON I'll be damned if I get rid of my chickens. I ought to get some hogs and put them out there.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTThere is soft knocking on the door. Suzie enter frame wearinga robe. SUZIE Who is it? BABE BROTHER (V.O.) Babe Brother.Suzie opens the door. BABE BROTHER, Gideon's youngest son,about 31, handsome, wearing an expensive suit, comes in,beating the cold off of him and blowing in his hands. BABE BROTHER I was hoping you came to the door instead of him. It gets cold at night. SUZIE This doesn't make any sense; you are going to drag that poor boy out in the cold air. BABE BROTHER He will be alright.The camera follows Babe Brother. He passes Gideon's roomwhere Gideon is asleep, snoring loudly.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHTSuzie and Babe Brother enter the bedroom where Sunny issleeping. Suzie gives Babe Brother a blanket to wrap Sunny upin. BABE BROTHER Thanks for taking care of him. I will try not to be so long next time.Babe Brother gives his mother a good-night kiss. Gideon comesto the door. GIDEON What time is it? Do you think you can just treat us like your slave? It's after one. BABE BROTHER I tried to call to let you know I was going to be late. GIDEON That's a lie. SUZIE Let us settle this tomorrow. GIDEON Look! Don't try to get ahead by riding our backs. BABE BROTHER (shouts) I pay my own way. GIDEON Since when?He reaches for Babe Brother but Suzie comes between them. SUZIE Take Sunny home, please.She pushes Babe Brother away. Babe Brother walks away,staring back at his father.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - SAME NIGHTGideon is lying in bed. Suzie gets in beside him. GIDEON Your feet are cold. SUZIE Go back to sleep. GIDEON I asked you to wake me when Babe Brother comes. SUZIE You all act like two roosters. GIDEON I'm not going to let him get away with murder. SUZIE You and Babe Brother are so much alike... GIDEON He ain't nothing like me. How come a man has to have sons that are day and night apart? You ought to stop protecting him. SUZIE Hush. GIDEON You're always taking his side. SUZIE Hush. GIDEON I'm trying to make him a man but you keep babying him. SUZIE You're going to find yourself on the floor.INT. BABE BROTHER'S BEDROOM - MORNINGThe bedroom is tastefully furnished with modern art andpaintings by Barns.Babe Brother wakes up with Sunny standing in the doorwaylooking at him. It takes Babe Brother some time to fully wakeup.Finally he sits reluctantly on the side of the bed and Sunnycomes over and sits next to him, trying to get his wearyfather interested in his remote-control racing car. BABE BROTHER I want you to be the richest man in the world so I can be the richest father in the world. SUNNY I don't want to be rich. I want to work on the railroad like grandfather. BABE BROTHER Son, if you are going to have a family, you can't always choose a job just because you like it. (beat) I don't want you to shine anybody's shoes or be a porter. You let somebody else carry your bags.Sunny quietly gets up and follows his car out of the room.INT. BABE BROTHER'S HOUSE - DAYBabe Brother, having showered but still wearing his pajamas,drags himself to the kitchen table where his wife LINDA has ahuge coffee mug with the inscription, "I'm the boss", waitingfor him.Linda is about thirty years old and materially oriented likeher husband. She is wearing a conservatively cut businessdress.Sunny stops playing with his car and gets himself an emptycup. Babe Brother is about to pour him some of his coffeewhen Linda objects. LINDA NO.Sunny pleads with her in silence but Linda refuses to yield. BABE BROTHER He wouldn't want any if you didn't try to keep it away from him.Linda leaves the table but stops for a moment and looks downat her husband. LINDA Because you were spoiled, don't try to spoil Sunny. BABE BROTHER My daddy never gave me anything without my having to sweat for it. Every summer, the way they kept me and Junior out of trouble was to send us to Big Daddy's farm. We would get up with the chickens. Every summer the fence had to be repaired. The barn needed a coat of paint. We had to pip all of Big Mama's hundred laying hens and go to church all day on Sunday. For Big Daddy, calluses and sweat were the mark of a man. Sunny will never have to bust his knuckles like we did. LINDA I want Sunny to have an advantage that you and I never had, but he needs discipline, and you are not helping when I tell him to do something and you allow him to get out of it. BABE BROTHER What is a sip of coffee going to do? LINDA Coffee is bad for anybody, especially for a child. BABE BROTHER I don't see you crying about my drinking it. LINDA How old are you?EXT. BACKYARD - DAYA SLOW CLOSE UP DOLLY SHOT OF SUZIE'S HANDS DROPPING SEEDS INTHE GROUND.Gideon is raking out the chicken coop. He puts the rake downand walks over to the garden and watches Suzie plant seedsfor a while. GIDEON Instead of standing here doing nothing, I better give those chickens some scratch before they start cackling.EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAYOLD JOHN is pushing his cart up the alley. Old John's face iswashed so clean that it shines. His pants are dirty and hiscart is full of odds and ends of no value. He looks to beabout seventy and fit. Old John throws a sack on Gideon'sfence.EXT. BACKYARD - DAYSuzie,is bent over a plant that she is tying to a stick. Shelooks up and sees the sack on the fence. A smile appears onher face. She goes over to the fence.EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAYOld John is about to take up his journey when Suzie sticksher head over the fence. SUZIE How are you? OLD JOHN Tolerably well. I brought you some more rabbit manure for your roses. SUZIE It is so considerate of you.Gideon sticks his head over the fence. GIDEON Well, well, look who is taking up all the sunshine. Brother John, how are you doing? OLD JOHN I'm still here.Suzie leaves the two men talking. GIDEON Tell me something. How do you get energy to stay on the move all day? OLD JOHN You couldn't sit on your rump under my daddy's roof. No sir. If you couldn't outwork his mule, you wasn't worth the salt you put in greens. You had to wake up looking for something to do. I was raised as a mule and now I'm a rolling stone.Suzie sticks her head over the fence and hands a bag of redtomatoes to Old John. OLD JOHN (CONT'D) I didn't mean for you to pay me for that. SUZIE I know you didn't but you have been so thoughtful. OLD JOHN But when your sunflowers come up, I'll pay you for them. SUZIE I planted a row just for you and you don't owe me anything.EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAYHIGH ANGLE SHOTSoff in the distance, a man is cutting his lawn. Gideon andSuzie are working in their garden. Other couples workingtheir gardens. Two young men are working on their car, whichis creating a lot of smoke. A group of girls are sitting on aporch trying to sing while one of the smaller ones is tryingto learn a step.Skip is on the roof with his radio listening to rap musicwhile his birds circle over head. From time to time he throwsa rock at them.INT. DELIVERY ROOM - DAYTHE CAMERA IS OUTSIDE OF THE ROOM. THE SCENE IS SHOT THROUGHTHE PARTLY OPEN DOOR.It is hard to see the woman giving birth. There are peopleblocking the view of the camera. Suzie is facing the cameraand the woman has her back to the camera. MOTHER It hurts. SUZIE Don't push too fast! Breathe! The hard part is over. You can see the top of the head. MOTHER It hurts. The pain. (scream) It's tearing me. SUZIE Father, give her a hand. FATHER Hey, this is too much. SUZIE You do your part. MOTHER Can you tell what it is? SUZIE Almost there. FATHER It's a junior. MOTHER Ah, I wanted a girl.Suddenly the baby begins to SCREAM.EXT. BACKYARD - DAYA sack appears on Gideon's fence. The sound of Old John'scart is heard rattling off.INT. CHURCH - DAYSuzie, Gideon, JUNIOR (Gideon's elder son, 35 years old anddark skinned), PAT (Junior's wife, who is expecting, about32) and Rhonda are all seated next to one another in the samerow. The PREACHER is knee-deep in water. He is baptizing agroup of young people. The members of the church are singing"Take Me To The Water". An Elderly Man who can hardly walkwithout help is being led down to the pool.INT. KITCHEN - DAYSuzie, Gideon, Junior, Pat and Rhonda are all seated at thetable eating. Babe Brother is standing up. He looks in thepot but doesn't find it to his liking. Junior is irritated athis brother. JUNIOR When are you going to find time to help me fix the roof? BABE BROTHER You all don't believe me when I tell you I'm afraid of heights. JUNIOR You used that excuse to get out of the army. BABE BROTHER You always got something to say. GIDEON Your mother asked me not to mention it but your mother's birthday was last week. BABE BROTHER I hadn't forgotten. I ordered some cloth but it didn't come in and I felt so bad if I would have come to her birthday without that, I just stayed at home. GIDEON What did your wife get her? BABE BROTHER We got the same thing.Junior laughs at Babe Brother's story. GIDEON Boy, go tell your wife to come in.EXT. STREET - DAYBabe Brother's car, a new Audi, is parked out front.Linda is in the front seat reading a magazine while Sunny isasleep in the back seat. Babe Brother sticks his head in thewindow. BABE BROTHER Why don't you come in for a while? LINDA I would like to finish reading this. What would I talk about? I haven't read this month's almanac. I don't care to hear about how the corn was this fall or how to get rid of gophers by putting garlic in their holes. They pride themselves in making life hard and that's not my cup of tea.INT. KITCHEN - DAYSuzie, Gideon, Junior, Pat and Rhonda are still at the tableeating. SUZIE You know, Babe Brother's wife just dumps greens in the pot without washing them. GIDEON Babe Brother is a poor boy. JUNIOR You all should have been hard on him like you were me and he wouldn't be the way he is. SUZIE Everybody got the same. I breast fed him like I breast fed you. PAT Junior, you are wrong.INT. CAR - DAY BABE BROTHER Just for a minute.A dirt rock HITS the front windshield. Linda lets out alittle scream. Babe Brother looks around. Skip is on top ofthe roof next door. SKIP I didn't mean to hit your car. I was throwing at my birds.INT. FEED STORE - DAYGideon is looking at the price of laying mash. He digs hishand into a barrel of scratch. Sunny also digs his hand inthe barrel.Suzie is looking at new young plants. She gives thevegetables a thorough going-over.Gideon is standing in line waiting to place his order. GIDEON I need about five pounds of laying mash and you better give me about the same of scratch.While at the counter, Gideon turns and looks around at theprices of different items. Suzie brings her plants and putsthem on the counter. GIDEON (CONT'D) When are you going to have a sale on weed killer? CASHIER You missed it. We had a two-day sale last week. GIDEON What kind of a sale is a two-day sale? I thought sales last a week or two. CASHIER Every day we have something different. Today's sale is hay. 25% off. If you have a horse or cow, you're in business.INT. CAR - DAYSunny looks at the Little Girl in the next car; she has hermouth pressed against the window. She is missing a tooth.Gideon is behind the wheel while Suzie holds her new plantsup to the sun, carefully looking at them.Sunny, seated in the back, pokes a hole in the sack of feed.The mash trickles to the floor as if from an hour glass.INT. KITCHEN - DAYSuzie is sitting in front of a table full of jars. Each jarhas a shoot and is half-filled with water. Gideon is on hisknees trying to fix the hinge to a cabinet. Sunny is sittingalmost under him listening to him tell stories. Sunny has acoffee can full of marbles. GIDEON All of the preachers were down in the basement of the church confessing their sins to one another. They were way down in the basement 'cause they figured no one would hear them. One of the preachers said, it makes me feel too shame to tell how bad I have been. You know them young gals that sit up in the first row. I can look at them and forget my text. I'm just lost when it comes to women, even them middle age sisters. Then another preacher said, I don't think I can tell you what my sin is 'cause it's bad. Another preacher said, Brother, we all amongst friends. Tell us what's troubling your soul. Clear your conscience.Gideon takes a sip of water. GIDEON (CONT'D) So the preacher said, we all got a bond 'cause we confessed to one another. So let me tell you, my sin is corn liquor. I just acts a fool behind that spirit water. I loves it more than preaching. Now ain't that a sin, lord. So all the preachers went on confessing, each one worst than the last. Finally they came to the last preacher who had been very quiet and listening to every word that fell. One of the preachers said to him, it's your turn. Confessing will lift you burden, Brother. Bare us your soul. We did. The last preacher said, no, my sin is the worst among all of you. One of the preachers said, ah go on man and stop all this suspense. So the last preacher said, like I told you my sin is the lowest. (beat) My sin is gossiping and I can't wait to get out and tell what I heard.Sunny does not get the humor of the story. He is moreinterested in picking up his marbles that Gideon's footkicked over. SUZIE You oughtn't tell him stories like that. SUNNY Tell me another story. GIDEON I'll you a story about the terrapin and the rabbit. No, you tell me a story. Come on. SUNNY Once upon a time, my mommy and daddy lived in this big house that I bought for them. I got them this big car.A strong wind causes the broom handle to knock against thechina teapot, KNOCKING IT TO THE FLOOR. Suzie stops Sunnyfrom trying to help pick up the pieces. SUZIE You stay back. You might cut your fingers.Suzie looks down sadly at her broken tea pot. GIDEON I looked everywhere for my toby.EXT. APPLE ORCHARD - DAYThe trees are barren, which gives them an unfriendly look. Aswe LOOK at the ground, a man's distorted shadow stops in theframe. DISSOLVE TO:EXT. FRONT PORCH - DAYA shadow of a man appears on Gideon's porch. The camera tiltsup to HARRY MENTION, a very dark-looking, ageless old mancarrying several boxes held together by a cord. He looksexhausted from his journey. He looks in his address book and,satisfied that he reached the right house, he rings thedoorbell.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYSuzie comes to the front door; she recognizes Harry rightaway. She invites him in. Harry stumps his feet on the porchseveral times and then enters. SUZIE Harry, I can't believe it is you. Gideon, look who is here.Gideon comes in, wiping his hands. Sunny, carrying the broom,follows behind. GIDEON Harry, good God Almighty, man! It's been, what, thirty years or more. Suzie, we haven't seen Harry since we left home.Harry is more interested in the boy, but Sunny doesn't wantto come near Harry. It is Gideon's arm that is keeping himwithin close range of Harry. GIDEON (CONT'D) This is my grandson, Sunny. He is my youngest son's child. HARRY He kind of favors one of my boys when he was about his age.Sunny, playing with the broom, accidentally touches Harry'sshoe with it. Harry hides his anger about being touched withthe broom. Harry takes the broom from Sunny and spits on thebottom of it. HARRY (CONT'D) Boy, that is bad luck to touch a fellow with a broom. GIDEON He knows better. Sunny, apologize to Harry. SUNNY I'm sorry. GIDEON What are you doing in these parts? HARRY I came all the way from Detroit by bus going to Oakland. The bus stopped in Los Angeles. I had to get off and take a rest. I'll catch the last bus leaving at midnight. I'm just too tired to go on. GIDEON Why didn't you catch a plane? HARRY My feet have never been on anything that wasn't directly attached to the ground. GIDEON Stay until you feel better? I would like to hear all the news. HARRY I'm worn out but won't you feel like you are taking in a stranger? SUZIE Stranger my foot, it was my grandmother who helped you into this world. HARRY Well, I don't want to put you out. GIDEON Man, put your boxes down and stay as long as you like. We have empty rooms since the boys got their own families and moved out. HARRY Well if you're sure, I won't be a bother. Oh, I don't sleep on no spring mattress. I always make myself a pallet on the floor.INT. BEDROOM - DAYThe bedroom door to Harry's room is cracked open. Peeringthrough the cracked door, we SEE Harry asleep on his pallet.His back is turned to the camera. It is dead silent. Theredoes not seem to be any sign of life. On the floor is a platethat has water in it. It looks like it is for a dog.INT. KITCHEN - DAYSuzie is peeling potatoes and Gideon is ironing. SUZIE Poor old Harry, he really must have been worn out. He has been asleep all day.Without anyone being aware, Harry has been standing in thedoorway for some time. HARRY Good evening. It must be all the different time zones I crossed that makes me feel this weary. SUZIE You should go back and rest. HARRY No, if I rest any longer, I won't sleep tonight. May I use your bathroom to wash up a bit? GIDEON Man, act like this is your home. HARRY That's awful generous of you. I always ask to keep from wearing out welcome. SUZIE One can tell you are from back home. These people nowadays don't know what manners are. HARRY Where we come from, you had to know how to act right. You had to know how to say yes sir and no sir. You had to know your place. GIDEON You had to tread softly.The doorbell rings and Gideon goes to answer it. SUZIE Those days you could always find something redeeming about even the worst person. HARRY You remember that boy who lost his mind, Joe? You could hear him pitching horseshoes at night in the dark. He wouldn't miss a one. Make him mad and call yourself running in the house to be safe. He would pick up a brick and say "go on in there brick and hit somebody" and it would find its mark. SUZIE I was afraid to go to Marcus Bottom because of him. HARRY All those places that us coloreds lived, that we used to call Bottoms, have all been changed to Drives and Heights. Everything is in what you call it, not in what it is.Gideon comes back with Junior, Pal and Rhonda. GIDEON Harry, I would like for you to meet my oldest son, his wife and daughter. JUNIOR Pleased to meet you. So you're from back home, too.Harry and Junior shake hands, but Rhonda gives Harry only anod of her head and a smile.Pat, who is pregnant, attempts to shake hands with Harry, butis forced to withdraw her hand because of a sudden pain inher stomach. PAT This boy must be turning over. Oh, he just kicked me again.Junior feels her stomach. Pat again tries to shake Harry'shand and again gets a jolt from her stomach. She finds achair to sit down in.The SOUND of rocks hitting the roof causes everyone to lookup. GIDEON It's the boy next door throwing at his birds. I'm just waiting on him to hit a pane in the window HARRY I'm going to wash up now. You all please excuse me.INT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAYHarry is wiping off his face with a washcloth. He stares athimself in the mirror for a long time. The sudden sound ofthe boy next door starting to play his trumpet startles him.He smiles at the trumpeter's efforts.He wrings the wash cloth out. A reddish oil-like liquid DRIPSinto the face bowl.EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNINGA few of the houses have lights on. Suddenly, Gideon'srooster starts to CROW. A dog starts to bark and a garbagecan is knocked over. Bedroom lights in almost all the housesin the neighborhood pop on. The voices of neighborscomplaining are heard.INT. BEDROOM - EARLY MORNINGHarry is just waking up. He listens to the voices of Suzieand Gideon as they get ready for church.INT. FRONT ROOM - MORNINGGideon is paging through the Bible as he stands by the door,waiting for Suzie who is watering her plants. Harry comes in. HARRY Good morning. GIDEON You ought to come hear our preacher. Remember old Cat Iron? Well, our preacher is just as strong. HARRY Next time when I feel a little better perhaps. GIDEON I was going to get up and get a hen out there for dinner, but time got away. HARRY Oh, I would feel much at home if you let me get one for you. I haven't wrung a chicken's neck in a month of Sundays. You know, folks would call my daddy to kill their hogs. That used to be my trade from time to time. GIDEON Well, I would appreciate that.EXT. HOUSE - DAYGideon and Suzie are stepping off the porch. Harry isstanding behind the screen door.Gideon and Suzie get in Junior's car. Junior, Pat and Rhondawave to Harry as the car pulls away.INT. LIVING HOUSE - DAYIT IS A TRACKING SHOT, FOLLOWING HARRY THROUGH THE HOUSE.Harry looks through Gideon's and Suzie's private things. Helooks at the baby pictures that fill the mirror. He readsSuzie's letters that are dated years ago. In one of theletters, he finds a picture of a man standing behind aplough. "Uncle Joe after Ella's death" is written on theback. A picture of a mule holds his interest. He looks at itfor a long time and carries it with him as he continues hissearch.EXT. BACKYARD - DAYHarry slowly walks along the rows in Suzie's garden. Hestands by the chicken cage. Suddenly, the chickens start torun about and CACKLE as if a dog had gotten in.Harry turns from the chicken coop. He stands still. Sunny ishiding behind a bush.Sunny steps around the bush. Harry looks at Sunny with suchconcentration that Sunny takes a step backward as if gettingready to defend himself.MRS. BAKER, a black woman in her early thirties, comes out onthe back porch. She shakes out a rug. She stops shaking therug and stares at Harry.Harry becomes aware of Mrs. Baker's stare. He comes tohimself and smiles at her.INT. GIDEON'S KITCHEN - DAYHarry and Babe Brother are playing cards while Linda watchesand Sunny plays by himself on the floor. In the sink is anewspaper full of bloody feathers. A small flame is under apot on the stove. Harry looks at the chicken in the pot andsits back down. LINDA You don't act like the rest of Gideon's friends. They believe if you are not hard at work, you are hard at sin. HARRY Oh, I'm more modern in my ways. I don't believe in sin, though there is good and evil. (beat) And evil is a thing you work at.Harry takes his knife, a crab apple switch, out. It has arabbit foot attached to it. Harry cleans his fingernail withthe knife. Sunny is interested in the rabbit foot. He reachesfor the knife. HARRY (CONT'D) Not you mustn't touch. Your mama might not like you handling knives. LINDA I think he wants to see your rabbit foot. HARRY I let this rabbit foot do in place of my toby that I lost years ago. LINDA What's a toby? HARRY You don't want to be at crossroads without one. It's a charm that old people teach you how to make. I had one for a long time that belonged to my grandmother who had it ever since she was a child. (beat) In my travels I misplaced it. I have been looking over my shoulder ever since. LINDA I thought you weren't old fashioned. HARRY In some things. When we were children, there used to be an old man that came around and would snatch your soul if you didn't have something on you that didn't make a X.Harry is aware that Babe Brother is interested in the knife.After cleaning his last fingernail, he hands the knife toBabe Brother.Harry looks at the cards in his hand. He smiles to himself. HARRY Did you have your child at home? LINDA No. No. No. No. I had my Child at Cedars and Sinai. And that ain't no county hospital. You have to have cash or check before you come in the door. HARRY Some folks take that natural stuff too far. LINDA Junior's wife kept her afterbirth' in the refrigerator. That's why I do not eat over there now. HARRY Country people got so many strange ways,Harry looks again at the chicken that he is boiling. BABE BROTHER Did you ever have to use this thing? HARRY That is called a crab apple switch. It's for those bad acting monkeys and just the thing for a mean dog. Now I don't know if I actually did what I did or got my life and story mixed in with other folk's stories but I seem to recall that I had to use my crab apple on a boy from back home. I was up in Memphis working on the railroad, like your daddy who had an easy job. He would sing a song that had a cadence and we would lay track. Anyway I was coming down Beale Street and I heard this music coming from a saloon. Sure enough it was Emory. My daddy taught both of us to play but Emory was natural at it. Got in a blues band and what not. He and another boy had killed a boy named Hocker sometime back and they balled the Jack leaving town. Emory had lost one eye and had a scar running down his face. Bad luck I would say. He got to drinking that corn liquor. We went to his girl's room and he wouldn't stop drinking. He started talking about the old days and he went mad. He pulled his knife and I got to mine first. The lights went out.Linda picks up a card and looks at it. There is a naked womanon the back. BABE BROTHER Don't pick up the cards if you are not in the game. Did he die? HARRY I don't know what happened to him. He just ran out into the streets. (beat) I got some old records I want you to hear. I like the blues sung simply, man and a guitar. Or sung by a woman who had bad luck all her life. Don't ever let anyone tell you his life's story if it is of a weary life full of sadness. When I was a boy, a man told me a story of how he lost all of his sons and I'll be damned if the same thing didn't happen to me.Sunny is busy playing in the curtains.The SOUND of Gideon and Suzie arriving makes them scurry toget the cards put away. Harry puts his knife away just asSuzie and Gideon enter. Linda feels a little embarrassed. LINDA How was church?Gideon and Suzie are surprised to see Linda. They don't knowwhat to say.EXT. MRS. BAKER'S BACKYARD - DAYRodney walks around in the yard BLOWING his trumpet as loudas he can. The SOUND of the trumpet frightens Skip's birds.INT. BATHROOM - DAYGideon is repairing the pipes under the face bowl. Harry isleaning against the door. HARRY How often is your wife called to help delivery? GIDEON It was slow. Now it seems like everyone is having births at home.Gideon takes the pipe off. It has rotted. Gideon cannotbelieve it. GIDEON (CONT'D) What could have caused this? I just changed this damn thing. HARRY Everything these days is made overseas. GIDEON You and Babe Brother hit it off so well. HARRY Course, it is your business, but I feel obliged to tell you that maybe you have not been fair with the boy. GIDEON I tried to teach him right from wrong just like I did his Junior. HARRY Everyone has to follow his own plough. A man doesn't have to know how to cut a wick and clean a chimney nowadays. City people don't give a hoot and a holler about the shape of the moon nowadays. You don't plant old ways... (beat) ... but, at the end, you find yourself doing what your father did but you have to have the land in you. (beat) It's when you want to give the house or farm to the kids and they don't want it. You sell it to a stranger. You worked your whole life, for what? (beat) I doubt if people nowadays have knowledge of a victory garden or seen an inch worm. All what we've experienced has no meaning. GIDEON You're suppose to teach your children what you know. Junior, I don't have to worry about. Babe Brother is a different story. HARRY You still call him boy. You call Babe Brother boy in front of his wife and son. GIDEON My daddy called me boy up to the time he died. I was always boy to him. HARRY 'Course, you could be right. Your sons are alive. All my sons are dead.Off-screen, Rodney starts to practice on his HORN.INT. BABE BROTHER'S LIVING ROOM - EVENINGBabe Brother is sitting with Sunny by the screen door blowinggiant bubbles. The bubbles drift past Linda, who is sittingat the table with real estate papers all over the table. Sheis talking on the phone with a client and signals them tostop disturbing her.Babe Brother sends more bubbles floating by, causing her toshake the water off her papers while she talks to a firsttime buyer. LINDA It has three bedrooms, one and a half baths. Well, yes, that means two toilets and one bath. Well... Yes, by appointment... Call me back if you decide.She hangs up the phone. LINDA You would think people never lived in a house if they have to ask what does 1 1/2 baths mean. BABE BROTHER Will you still get the money from your father? LINDA I told him we might not need it, if you can talk your parents into giving you your share of the property. BABE BROTHER Pops put Big Daddy's farm in Rhonda's and Sunny's name and fixed it so no one can borrow on it. LINDA We could borrow on that land and put the money to work. BABE BROTHER I preached to Mom and Dad about it but they are stuck in their ways, it's like talking to a brick. But if there is a way...Babe Brother is lost in his thoughts. He stares down at hishands resting on his knees. He picks up the telephone.INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAYJunior is on the phone with Babe Brother. Pat crosses infront of the camera shaking her head in a negative manner.Babe Brother's voice is just audible. JUNIOR You want me to mortgage my house to invest in a scheme of yours? You know the last time we went into something together Daddy had to go in his savings to keep us from ending on the street. BABE BROTHER (O.S.) Why are you always afraid to get somewhere? JUNIOR This is not a good time to take chances. Your best friend, Robert, an accountant, lost his home and is out on the street. We see him from time to time. He comes down to church for a free meal. BABE BROTHER (O.S.) This is what it is all about, trying to keep from being out on the street. JUNIOR Robert asks about you. When are you going to do something to help him? BABE BROTHER (O.S.) Maybe I can get down there next week.Junior turns to his wife, who is off-camera. JUNIOR Babe Brother always acts like a gambler who is in the biggest game of his life and don't know about playing cards.EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - HOT AFTERNOONHarry and Gideon are walking along a railroad track. The sunis blinding. The heat makes the asphalt Appear to turn into alake off in the distance. Gideon appears exhausted; beads ofsweat continually form on his forehead. He fans himself withhis hat. Harry is unaffected by the hot temperature. HARRY I can sit here and look at train tracks all day. We laid enough of them, didn't we? So many memories are stretched along tracks like these.Gideon looks down the tracks. A bowl of dust stirs off in thedistance. The hot temperature makes the tracks appear liquid.EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - HOT AFTERNOON (EFFECT)The tracks begin to twist and bend. Off in the distance,faint images of men laying track to a song.EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - HOT AFTERNOONGideon is standing with his hat in his hand. His posture isthat of an extremely old man. GIDEON In weather like this, you cannot walk around bare-headed.He wipes the sweat from his hat band. HARRY We'll go a little farther. The walk will do us some good.INT. KITCHEN - DAYSuzie is peeling apples while Sunny, standing next to her,catches peelings in his mouth. Pat is sitting next to thewindow. She is uncomfortable. She loosens her pants, givingher stomach more room. Rhonda is leaning over the back of thechair with her arms around Pat's neck. They are insilhouette. PAT Did you do your homework? RHONDA Yes. (beat) Mama? PAT What? RHONDA Can I name the baby?INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAYSuzie knocks on the door. Harry comes to the door stillbuttoning his shirt. SUZIE I have someone I want you to meet. HARRY I'll be right there.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYGideon in the background in the kitchen washing off thevegetables. Suzie and HATTIE are sitting at the table. Harrycomes in and is surprised to see Hat tie. Hattie is in herlate sixties but looks well. She makes a conscious effort todress plainly. HATTIE I couldn't believe it when Suzie called and said you were staying here. How have you been? HARRY Girl, do you still sing and dance? HATTIE No, I'm a different person now, Harry.Hattie has a nervous condition that causes her to squint fromtime to time. Gideon comes in from the kitchen. GIDEON Haven't the years been good to Hattie? HARRY It hasn't been the years; it's been the men in her life. HATTIE Harry, that's not nice. I'm in church now. HARRY Why run out and close the barn door when the horse is gone? I remember when you weren't saved. That was way back yonder when the Natchez Trace was just a dirt road. HATTIE Some people grow up and change their ways. HARRY I know your mother ain't still operating that house of hers. HATTIE My mother passed on years ago.EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF HOUSE - DAYM.C. slams the door to his car and hurries up the steps,leaving HERMAN, in spite of his bad condition, to get out ofthe car the best he can. The car door almost knocks poorHerman over. M.C. seems rather youthful because of his energyand awkwardness. He is a large muscular man.Herman is a dried-up man with nothing, not even a shadow. Hehas a racking COUGH.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYM.C. gives Gideon a bear hug, lifting him off his feet. Onseeing Suzie, he drops Gideon and rushes over to lift her upoff her feet.EXT. STREET - DAYHerman is still trying to get out of the car.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYM.C. lifts Suzie off the ground twice. He runs over to Hattiewho does not want to be handled, tries to withdraw but M.C.forces her to her feet and gives a big bear hug. Hattie has aseries of squinting attacks. M.C. squints in return. HATTIE M.C., you still ain't house broken. GIDEON Good God Almighty, if it ain't like a parade of people from out of the past. M.C., where did you come from? M.C. I live here.There is a TAPPING on the door. M.C. (CONT'D) That's old Herman. HATTIE Harry, what did you do, rob the graveyard?Herman hobbles in and, after a minute of COUGHING, a smileforms on his face.INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTSuzie, Gideon and Hattie are seated at the table while M.C.bounces from one end of the table to the other. One moment heis on his knees and next moment he is leaning over someone toflick his ashes in the ashtray on the table. Hattie hates itwhen he comes near her.Harry and Herman sit together in the corner chewing onstarch. M.C. Hattie, do you still dance? HATTIE I'm in church. M.C. What does that got to do with it? HATTIE Suzie, you still have Joe's number? SUZIE I will have to look for it. M.C. Who's Joe? HATTIE None of your business. HARRY That is a boy from home, Lulla's brother.Suzie is surprised. SUZIE Harry, you know everything. HARRY You got to know everything, do everything, and be everything.Gideon brings a fresh pot of coffee. Gideon tries to signalM.C. to stop harassing Hattie. M.C. leans over Hattie againto use the ashtray.Harry is helping Herman to his feet. Herman starts to cough.They come over and join the rest of the crowd at the table.Harry seats Herman next to Gideon and pours Herman a cup ofcoffee. He puts the sugar and cream in the coffee for Herman.Suzie comes back with Joe's number and hands it to Hattie. HERMAN M.C., I'm worn out. You ready to go? M.C. If you are tired, go sit in the car. HERMAN Suzie, do you have any Swamp Root? SUZIE No, but I might have some Indian Chief Tonic. HATTIE I haven't heard anyone mention Swamp Root since button-up shoes went out. HARRY You can certainly tell how old you are, my dear.Hattie is angered. HATTIE You know the saying, "your heart is in your left hand." HARRY Now I was trying to be nice, to make conversation, since we go back some. HATTIE I was quoting from the Bible. If the shoe fits, wear it. HARRY "Out of weariness, I spoke to my own heart; to leave it all and to die. And I gave my heart to know madness and folly." M.C. You ain't going to win playing the dozens with Harry. HERMAN You all ought to get along. HATTIE Harry, you know you remind me of so much that went wrong in my life. When I heard you were here, I made a special effort to come and see you. I see you are still a pile of wet chicken feathers. HERMAN Oh Lord. HARRY My sister, women can get away with so much. I don't have any enemies 'cause I don't live in the past. As Pushkin, you don't know him, said, "In the hope of glory and good, I look without fear ahead." M.C. Harry has got your number. HATTIE An empty wagon makes a lot of noise and you, tappy head, you ain't worth the salt you put in greens. HARRY Speaking of tappy heads, we ought to have an old fashion fish fry. HERMAN I don't have too many fish fries left. HARRY We can have it here next week. HATTIE Is this your house? HARRY Oh. I'm sorry. Gideon, what do you say? GIDEON Well, it's up to Suzie. SUZIE It would be nice. HATTIE In the meantime Harry can slaughter us a hog. HARRY I already have, my dear. HERMAN Please, M.C., take me home.INT. LIVING ROOM - DAYThe children of the women in Suzie's natural birth group arehuddled together SINGING "Ashiine Ca Chew". The voices of thewomen in the next room are audible. The kids go outside tosit on the porch.INT. HOUSE, WORK ROOM - DAYMost of the women have their newborns with them and areengaging in talk about how their other children had to adjustand etc.A young white mother, REBECCA WILSON, with both her children,a four year old and one just a few months old, talks with adeep southern accent. WILSON No one in my family ever been to a hospital to give birth. My sister has four children and all were born at home. My mother and her mother, it just goes on and on.EXT. FRONT YARD - DAYA mother leaves with her baby wrapped in a blanket. The kidssurround her, wanting to see the baby.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAYPat is looking at a book of baby names. Harry passes the doorand stops. HARRY A woman in family way just reminds of spring and my younger days. PAT That's nice. HARRY Well, you and your husband are special. Ya, Gideon tells me you do volunteer work to help feed the poor.Pat beams with joy because Harry recognizes the importantwork she is doing. HARRY How many people do you all feed? PAT Last Saturday we handed out over two hundred meals. HARRY Good God Almighty, bless your bones. (pause) But the problem grows. PAT Week by week the crowds at the door keeps getting larger. We can't feed all the hungry. HARRY Of course not. Have you ever heard of a man jumping in the river to save five hundred drowning people? No you ain't. (pause) You have to take just one and fatten him up. When you spread help too thin, you , you just nickel and dime the situation. If you try to save all, all die but if you save one life, life goes on. You just have to remember, medicine that works leaves a bitter taste.Harry looks at the baby picture pasted over the mirror. Hetakes the picture of his children from his old black dustywallet and compares the faces of his kids with those on themirror. He talks to himself more than to Pat. HARRY (CONT'D) You just take one; you thaw out the cold and hunger in his bones from sleeping on the bare ground.Pat watches him and loses herself in what he is doing. Sheresponds automatically PAT I don't know if we could take one in with Rhonda and me at home alone at times. HARRY Oh, I wasn't pointing my finger at you. Hey, you have to think of yourself. A lot of them have all kinds of diseases and will cut your throat while you sleep. There are too many bad people out there.EXT. GIDEON'S BACK PORCH - DAYJunior is taking the back door off to paint. Harry helps himcarry the door and lay it on a saw horse. JUNIOR I appreciate you lending me a hand. That lazy ass brother of mine was suppose to help me. HARRY Well some folks are still waiting for their comeuppance. Don't take me wrong but you can't judge people by how you act. You're a caring person. JUNIOR He should be caring. That is not too much to ask. HARRY Ya, but you can't do the shuffle with one leg. You and your wife, in your spare time, work with the less fortunate. Now I'm not talking about you and what you do but some folks that always run to help the victim, deep down are attracted to pain and suffering and love to be near the dying. JUNIOR All the people working with us are really doing it 'cause they hate to see suffering. HARRY You never know what's in the heart and just because you can cry doesn't make you human.INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - NIGHTRhonda is in the background washing dishes. Pat and Juniorare sitting at the dining room table, arguing. JUNIOR We can't really bring another family in here with us. PAT Why not? Harry says that's the only way to do good. JUNIOR When did you talk to Harry? PAT Don't shout!EXT. BACKYARD - DAYGideon and Sunny are in the garden digging for worms. Thechickens GIDEON I think we have enough. So now tell me a story.EXT. BALDWIN HILLS LAKE - LATE AFTERNOONGideon is sitting on a rock by the lake. His image isreflected in the lake. He is asleep. Sunny is putting newbait on one of the reels and with a whip of the pole, hecasts to the center of the lake. He leans against a tree.Sunny looks at his sleeping grandfather. Gideon has his pantlegs rolled up. His socks have lost their elastic. His headis resting on his chest.Sunny goes near the water. GIDEON Be careful of the water.Sunny looks back at his grandfather, who appears to beasleep. DISSOLVE TO:There is one fish in the bucket. DISSOLVE TO:EXT. LAKE - SUNSETWIDE ANGLE SHOT FROM HIGH ANGLEGideon and Sunny are sitting next to each other. The lakereflects the sky: a deep red. The eerie sound of a long trainwhistle breaks the silence.INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNINGHarry, Babe Brother and Linda come in after staying out allnight. Linda looks as though she is about to fall asleepstanding up. She awakes and looks at Harry. There is dislikein her stare. Suzie and Gideon notice Linda fading away. SUZIE Are you feeling well? LINDA I've never been so tired in my life. Where is Sunny? SUZIE He is getting his things together. Babe Brother, you ought to take your wife home so she can get some rest. BABE BROTHER In a minute.Sunny comes in carrying his night-clothes folded neatly. Hestands next to Linda. Harry, in a mild but demanding way,ushers Babe Brother out of the door. HARRY Take your wife and child home, boy.Babe Brother seems all too happy to obey Harry. After Harrycloses the door behind Babe Brother, he turns with a widesmile. HARRY (CONT'D) I got a surprise for you tonight.Harry flops down on the couch and kicks his shoes off. HARRY (CONT'D) This old buffalo has been in the sun too long.INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTSuzie and Gideon are getting the food ready while Harry,wearing a shirt that looks like it is made of shinysnakeskin, sits in a darkened corner of the room, cutting hisfingernails with his knife.The door bell rings and Harry slowly walks over to answer thedoor. Suzie puts the punch bowl down and hurries over to meetthe first guests, FRED JENKINS, an elderly black man whom shehasn't seen in years, and Esme Jenkins, his wife. SUZIE Fred Jenkins. JENKINS Suzie, you haven't changed and you, Gideon, if you don't look like John Henry. Oh, this is my wife, Esme. My first wife Lulie died.More people arrive, bottle-necking the doorway. Gideon helpsthe Jenkinses to a chair. Hattie comes with her brotherMARSH, who is not too pleased to see Harry. OKRA TATE, anelderly black man with dark circles under his eyes, comes inlimping badly with an old Polaroid camera hanging from hisneck.Babe Brother, Linda, Junior, Pat and Rhonda, who is holdingSunny's hand, all come in together. M.C. drags Herman throughthe door coughing. FLIM ANDERSON and his son DOUG arefollowed by the twins, WILLIAM and LOVIRAY NORWOOD, who arein their late 70's.Babe Brother leaves Linda standing by herself to be next toHarry.Zenia Dent, an elderly white woman with a strong Southernaccent, arrives with her husband, Howard Dent, a black man,who is in a wheelchair. The Twins and Howard are the centerof attention.Okra comes over and whispers into Harry's ear. Okra leavesthrough the front door. Okra comes back in with a bag. Harry,Babe Brother, M.C. and Herman follow Okra to the kitchen.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHTOkra sets the bag on the table and steps back to allow Harryto unveil the bottle of corn liquor. BABE BROTHER What is that? HARRY Boy, that is the real South. That is real corn liquor.A crowd starts to gather around. FLIM What is in the bottle? M.C. It ain't Geritol.M.C. starts to hand out tea cups while Harry pours everyone adrink. HERMAN There is a fight in every bottle. GIDEON You tappy heads better not tear down my house.INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHTAn attractive Woman, in her younger days a knockout, puts ona record and starts to pop her fingers to the music as shemoves towards the center of the floor dancing by herself,inviting anyone bold enough to join her.A group of Men who haven't seen each other in years areasking questions about news of old friends.Okra is trying to get his camera working.Herman is following M.C. through the crowd with his handresting on M.C.'s shoulder as if he were a blind person. Hisracking COUGH is frightening.An older couple dancing attract the attention of the crowd.The man is wearing Stacy Adams shoes polished to see one'sface in them. He gives expression to his moves as if he andthe woman are talking with their bodies.Junior and Pat try to bring in something more modern to outdothe older couple.Herman corners Hattie, trying to get her to sing. HATTIE Look, you better get out of my face before I slap the living daylights out of you.Harry stops the music. HARRY You folks excuse me but you know we have a celebrity from out of the past, our own nightingale. If you had any good times in your life, you remember Hattie. She use to keep those juke joints steaming. If Ma Rainey and Bessie Smith were the stars, she was the sun. Let's get Hattie to sing something from the old days.Hattie has started her nervous twitch again. She is so madthat she bites her lip to keep from exploding. HATTIE Harry always tries to be the king fish. I told him I'm a new person. I'm saved.Harry signals an old man, PERCY, to start playing his guitar.Percy starts to play but Hattie doesn't join him. He looks toHarry for a sign of what to do. Hattie walks away.Percy starts to SING by himself but someone puts a record on,interrupting his singing. People are back to dancing.A YOUNGER WOMAN is dancing with an OLDER MAN with such vigor,forcing the old man to try to keep up, that people growconcerned. People near him try to make him slow down but hispride forces him to be ridiculous.INT. BEDROOM - NIGHTLinda sits with Sunny and Rhonda watching TV.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTThe noise has gotten louder, everyone talking at the top ofhis voice.Gideon is busy going around to everyone seeing if everythingis okay. Gideon and Suzie have worked up a sweat trying toattend to everyone's needs.Linda rejoins the party. She moves through the crowd and seesBabe Brother standing next to Harry. She is disappointed andstays at a distance.Harry is with a group of people. Marsh tries to get Harry'sattention. MARSH Harry, you will not remember me but we go back quite a ways. I'm glad Hattie told me that you will be here 'cause there is a matter that has been troubling me all these years that maybe you can help me clear it up.Harry stares into Marsh's eyes, then looks him over from headto toe. HARRY Man, I can't talk to you now. I'm filling in the gaps with these folks.Harry turns his back on Marsh. Marsh stands there looking atHarry's profile. He turns and walks away.The record ends. The Younger Woman and the Older Man wait forthe next record. YOUNGER WOMAN How do you manage to keep in step and move around so like one of them young boys? OLDER MAN Get yourself a pace-maker like me.Linda is standing by herself. She watches Babe Brother andHarry walk towards the kitchen. Pat comes to talk to her. PAT These old folks can dance better than I can. Get rid of that long face. Get one of these old farts to show you how to do the Black Bottom.Okra, holding his camera, all of the attachments in one handand a glass in his other hand, tries to offer Hattie a drink. OKRA Don't be so stand-offish.Hattie pushes him away. The drink spills on him. She turnsand walks away. He follows her.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHTMarsh sits in a chair opposite Harry. Babe Brother standsbehind Harry. Harry, knowing that Marsh is going to bring upunpleasant things of the past, feels the need to get rid ofBabe Brother. HARRY Son, you haven't danced with your wife all night.Babe Brother is reluctant to leave, but Harry gives him anudge. He goes looking for Linda. MARSH There is something that I always wanted to know. Tell me, how did those boys die? HARRY Now who are we talking about? MARSH Miss Clara's boy, Emory, to start with. The Johnson's Hocker was another one... HARRY Wasn't Hocker lynched? MARSH You know as well as I do that it was made to look like he was lynched. Now who would hang someone from a persimmon tree? HARRY What difference does it make if it's persimmon, oak tree or huckleberry bush?INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTGideon, Babe Brother, and Linda go outside.EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHTThe sounds of the party drift out from the house as Gideon,Linda and Babe Brother talk. GIDEON Tell me, how come me and Suzie have to be mother and father to your child? You never take the boy to the park, circus or anything. If we did not take him to church, he wouldn't have any sense of religion. LINDA I think forcing him to go to church when he really doesn't understand is not saving his soul. When he gets old enough to make up his own mind about religion, that will be better. It will be his intellectual decision. GIDEON Is that the way your parents raised you? BABE BROTHER Why, you don't want us to bring him over? GIDEON No, it's that when do you have time to be parents to him? You guys don't pick him up until nine, ten at night. You are into yourselves, as the saying goes. Spend some time trying to be parents. Take him to the mountains, fishing. You ought to let him get to know nature. BABE BROTHER Well, you are his grandfather. He is supposed to spend some time with you. You're supposed to show him those woodsy things and this and that. GIDEON Junior spends time with his child. BABE BROTHER Oh here we go with that.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTOkra is trying to get enough light for his old Polaroidcamera. M.C. takes a shade off a lamp and holds it next tothe Twins, nearly blinding them. WILLIAM Hurry up and take this picture. FRED If it wasn't for the NRA, colored people would have been the lost tribe. FLIM Remember what they use to call the NRA? Negro Raggedy-ass Army.M.C. is still holding the naked lamp while Okra tries to takepictures.INT KITCHEN - NIGHT MARSH Hocker's death almost caused a race riot. A lot of innocent people could have been hurt behind that. HARRY Strange as it may seem, it might have cleared the waters. Sometimes the right action comes from the wrong reason.EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHTGideon, Babe Brother and Linda are just standing, facing oneanother. Suzie comes out on the porch. SUZIE Do you want your coat? It's cold out here. GIDEON No, I'm too hot now. SUZIE You better be careful. You'll get a stroke arguing. GIDEON I wouldn't care if I drop dead if he learn something from it. (beat) Son, you make me wish I was dead. SUZIE Gideon, don't say things like that. BABE BROTHER Why does he always pick on me? LINDA He is just being like all parents, concerned about the ones they love. BABE BROTHER I don't need that kind of love. And I don't want to be reminded all the time that Big Mama's grandmother was born in slavery. If you really care about me, just tell me how I can make money. SUZIE Babe Brother, I'm going to take my hand and hit you across your mouth. LINDA He doesn't mean what he says. GIDEON Let us go back in before the night of celebration becomes a night of me killing my son. SUZIE No. Before anyone moves, you two shake hands and don't carry it any further.Linda gives Babe Brother a jab with her elbow. His handreaches out to Gideon.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTM.C. and Herman put the unshaded lamps next to Hattie so okracan get a better picture. Percy starts to play his guitar.Herman stands behind Percy. HATTIE Don't make me say something nasty now.Percy starts to play an old religious number and HattieSTARTS TO SING. Everything stops for a moment as her VOICEfills the room.Then most of the guests pick up and join in. M.C. moves thelamp next to Percy so Okra can take his picture.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHTMarsh and Harry are getting quite loud in their argument. Ithas become a kind of controlled anger. HARRY I think if anybody had a hand in killing Hocker, you ought to ask or you should have asked Emory and Chick. MARSH Chick was outright killed by a mob. He killed a white man that owed him some money and when they caught up with him, they tied him behind a car and dragged him from out of the hills back to town. HARRY Those boys never did have good luck. MARSH You damn right they didn't, especially Emory, my cousin. HARRY Emory had made a lot of enemies. He had a big mouth.M.C. and Okra come in wanting to take pictures. Marsh ispretty mad about them intruding. M.C. sets the naked lamp infront of Marsh, on the floor, almost between his legs.Before Okra can get his camera set to shoot, Marsh leaves.Harry smiles as if he had won a major victory. Herman flopsdown in the empty chair and starts to COUGH.Suddenly Suzie and Gideon burst into the kitchen holding upone of the twins, Loviray. They carry the twin towardsHerman's seat. Herman is slow to react. Herman gets up veryslow. Finally, they are able to seat the twin. HARRY (CONT'D) What's the problem here? SUZIE She has a fish bone caught in her throat. Could all of you go in the other room? Gideon, get some bread and toast it quickly and find me the cod liver oil.The twin is holding her throat and PANTING like a fish out ofwater. She is in a lot of pain. William, the twin brother, isstanding at the door with a tragic face.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - MORNINGGideon is trying to get out of bed. He sits on the side ofthe bed and starts to COUGH.INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - MORNINGHarry has his back to the camera, sitting in a chair facing awall. He is naked from the waist up. An empty plate is placednot too far from where he is sitting. He is cutting an apple.He licks the blade of his knife.INT. BABE BROTHER'S BEDROOM - MORNINGBabe Brother is asleep. Linda is dressed to go to work. Shethrows his suit on the foot of the bed. LINDA Are you going to work or sleep all day?He snores louder. She opens the window and pulls back thecover. The cold air makes him draw up. On walking out, Lindasays in a rather hurt voice: LINDA Remember, you promised to take Sunny to Magic Mountain today.Babe Brother slowly gets up holding his chest as if his heartis bothering him.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - MORNINGGideon tries to put his pants on. He is too weak and sitsback on the bed with his pants only up as far as his knees.INT. KITCHEN - MORNINGSuzie gets up to turn off the coffee kettle. When the kettleWHISTLE dies away, the sound of Gideon's VOICE is heardcalling Suzie for help. The sound of his voice frightens her.INT. BEDROOM - DAYSuzie bursts into the room and then moves very slowly toGideon, who is sitting on the bed out of breath. GIDEON I'm worn out. SUZIE Just stay in bed and rest. GIDEON I have to feed the chickens before they wake everybody up. SUZIE You stay inside. I will see to them. GIDEON I will appreciate that.INT. DINING ROOM - EVENINGSuzie and Junior are sitting at the dining room table. Harry,looking like he has just gotten out of bed, drags himself in. HARRY How is everybody? SUZIE Tolerable well. JUNIOR How did you sleep last night?There is obvious hostility in Junior's tone. Harry sensesJunior's hostility and chooses to ignore it. HARRY Ah, you young folks don't know how it is. How is Gideon today? SUZIE He wasn't able to get out of bed today. HARRY I hope that it's nothing serious. SUZIE He has never gotten rid of the malaria. He is usually up and at it the next day. I'm going to make him fresh chicken broth. HARRY Let me earn my keep. I'll go out and get a hen and have it picked and ready for the pot. Try to make him some cow tea next time.Junior stares at Harry. Harry returns Junior's stare andJunior finds himself embarrassed. Junior looks down at hispants leg and attempts to fix the crease in his pants bymaking a wedge with his fingers and running his fingers alongthe old crease.As Harry walks towards the back door, he looks back atJunior.EXT. BACKYARD - EVENINGThe pigeons take to the air like an explosion. The chickensstart to CACKLE and run about as Harry reaches for one withhis cane. The SOUND of the boy next door practicing with histrumpet adds to the bedlam.Suzie is standing on the steps, shouting to Harry. The noiseof the panicked chickens and the boy playing the trumpet nextdoor drown out Suzie's voice. Not getting Harry's attention,she hurries down the steps.Harry has caught a hen that is SCREAMING her head off. Helooks around and finds Suzie hurrying towards him. SUZIE Can you watch Gideon for a while? One of the girls is going into labor. Junior is going to drive me over. HARRY You just run along. I'll fix him his soup. He will be all right.INT. ROOM - NIGHTSuzie and another woman who will be helping her are asleep.Suzie is in the chair and the woman is asleep on the floor.The woman who is in labor is reading a magazine and seemssomewhat bored.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHTHarry opens the door and slowly walks in. Gideon is asleep.Harry picks up Gideon's pants from the back of the chair.Gideon's false teeth fall to the floor.INT. ROOM - NIGHTThere is a flurry of activity; the woman is contracting.INT. BEDROOM - MORNINGThe untouched chicken broth sits on the night stand. Gideonis TALKING in his sleep. Morning light filters through thewindow shade. The room takes on a brownish tint. Gideon hasdark rings under his eyes and looks like he has agedconsiderably.INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - MORNINGHarry is reading the Bible. He runs his finger over the printof the Bible. After reading the passage, he stares at theempty plate on the floor for what seems like a long time. Heclaps the Bible shut, causing a loud NOISE to ECHO throughthe house.EXT. FRONT OF HOUSE - MORNINGSuzie is walking slowly up the steps.INT. BEDROOM - MORNINGSuzie raises the window shade and is shocked to see the statethat Gideon is in. SUZIE Oh my Lord!INT. BEDROOM - DAYThe room is crowded with people. Suzie is putting Gideon'sshirt on. Harry is leaning against the door. After having puthis shirt on, Suzie puts his house shoes on and directs BabeBrother and Junior to hold him up while she tucks his shirtin and puts on his suspenders.It takes almost everyone to hoist Gideon. Linda and Pat pushthe bed and night-stand out of the way as Babe Brother andJunior struggle to lift Gideon. They almost stumble at thedoor. Harry is left standing in the room alone.EXT. BACKYARD - DAYHarry, Okra and Herman are trying to catch another chicken.Herman is COUGHING badly and Okra is out of breath. OKRA You think old Gideon is going to live to see this month out? HARRY When I came upon the valley of bones, the serpent said, "Make this your home. Dry as my soul be, heaven is lost to thee." We all got to make way.Harry puts the rooster face to the ground and draws astraight line. Harry lets the rooster go, but the roosterstays motionless, unable to move. HARRY (CONT'D) A chicken hates to see the preacher coming to dinner.Herman hands Harry the ax. Harry is poised over the chickenwith the ax, appreciating the moment. Harry raises the ax.The SOUND of Rodney starting to practice his trumpet bringsthe rooster out of the trance.Before Harry can react, the rooster jumps away. OKRA Herman, you will have to catch the next one 'cause I'm out of breath. HERMAN If I have to chase after one, we won't eat.A sack drops over the fence. Okra limps over to see what isin the bag. He uses a stick to open the bag. He doesn't likewhat he sees and throws the bag back over the fence.INT. VETERAN'S HOSPITAL, WARD - DAYSuzie, Junior and Pat are standing around Gideon's bed. He isin a room full of old veterans who are apparently nearing theend.Two old veterans, one white and the other black, sittingopposite each other wearing medals, sit in silence staringinto each other's eyes.A nurse empties an old man's urine bag. The old man doesn'tshow any embarrassment about his predicament. Gideon looks athow the patients are treated. GIDEON I don't want to stay here. (beat) Where is Babe Brother?INT. HERMAN'S ONE ROOM HOUSE - DAYM.C. is sitting on the bed, reading the job section of thepaper. Herman is putting Vicks Vapo-Rub in a bowl of boilingwater. He covers his head over the bowl with a towel. Okra issitting at the table examining his gun. He points it at thefloor, seeing if the sight is straight.Harry is sitting at the table with Babe Brother. Harry isshowing him how to cheat at cards. HARRY Never play with someone's else's cards. You always get a new deck. Look at this card. See anything? BABE BROTHER It is just a regular card. HARRY Son, I can take everything you got with that deck. It is marked. Now I'm going to show you how to make some money in case you get stuck somewhere.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTA moth flies around the light casting a shadow that floatsover everything. Suzie turns out the kitchen light and thenturns out the dining-room light. She goes to her room andcloses the door, leaving the room dark. A car headlightpassing outside casts a moving pattern that moves along thewall.The light reveals Harry's presence standing in the halldoorway.EXT. HOUSE - DAYGideon is being helped up the steps by his sons.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYSuzie is holding the door open while Gideon is carried in byJunior and Babe Brother. Gideon is led to a chair. He stilllooks awful. BABE BROTHER Doesn't he look a whole of lot better? SUZIE Well, you look better than you did yesterday. GIDEON Next time, I don't care how sick I'll be, don't take me back to the Veteran's Hospital.Harry comes out of the bathroom, having just taken a bath.Harry seems delighted to see Gideon again. HARRY Boy, I thought you were about to cross the river. GIDEON I tell you, I feel like a ghost.Harry signals Babe Brother to come over to him. HARRY Son, would you do me a favor and see if you could turn off that tap in the bathroom. My hand is too weak. And would you do me another favor? I don't like asking this but would you clean the tub for me? I have trouble bending over. BABE BROTHER Anytime you need someone to do something for you, just let me know.Harry flops down on the couch. Suzie sets a cup of coffee onthe table for Gideon. Harry looks up from sharpening hisknife on a hand sharpening stone. He spits on it. HARRY That smells like fresh coffee. SUZIE Let me get you a cup? HARRY Only if you can spare it.Junior stands over Harry's shoulder looking at him sharpeninghis knife. Harry feels uncomfortable with Junior standingbehind him. Harry looks up at him. HARRY (CONT'D) Son, would you get me an old piece of newspaper?Suzie sets a cup of coffee in front of Harry. HARRY (CONT'D) Lord if you ain't an angel.Junior hands Harry the newspaper. Harry puts the paper underhis foot and trims his toenails with it. Harry is aware ofJunior standing over him. HARRY (CONT'D) I will leave you something in my will.INT. BATHROOM - DAYJunior looks in but Babe Brother is too busy trying to cleanthe bathtub to notice anyone. Babe Brother complains tohimself. BABE BROTHER What in the hell...INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYGideon and Suzie are in silhouette against the window.The SOUND of the boy trying to play his horn next doorstartles Gideon. Gideon turns to look out of the windowtowards Mrs. Baker's house. GIDEON It's good to be able to hear that. SUZIE You must have been really sick. GIDEON How is the garden doing? SUZIE I need to get out there and get those weeds out. GIDEON How is that hen doing? I was meaning to pip her before I fell sick.He takes a deep breath and blows it out. GIDEON (CONT'D) I'm going to lie down. Take my, hand and help me up, lest I fall.INT. BEDROOM - DAYSuzie helps Gideon to undress. Gideon loses hit balance butcatches himself on the side of the bed. GIDEON Oh, I couldn't have last another day in that hospital. You get weary being in the old soldiers home, old soldiers and war stories. They wait to tell you their last story; the next morning the nurse pulls a sheet over their face.INT. DINING ROOM, JUNIOR'S HOUSE - NIGHTJunior is putting up a new light fixture. Pat hands him atool. Rhonda is washing dishes in the kitchen. PAT He just leeches off your parents. He is a master at wearing out welcome. JUNIOR Harry is the kind of guy you would love to take out in the woods and leave under a rock. PAT Where does her get the power to summon all his old raffish friends? They all smell of moth balls. Junior slips on the ladder and the wires touch. There is abig spark. All the lights in the house go out. INT. BABE BROTHER'S KITCHEN - NIGHTLinda is standing over the stove, sweating as she stirs a hotpot of boiling soup.Babe Brother and Harry are seated at the table playing cards.Sunny is on the floor near his mother. Every time she move,he follows her. Harry notices Sunny has his shoes on thewrong foot and adds in a sarcastic way: HARRY How old is that boy?Babe Brother looks at Sunny's shoe. BABE BROTHER Linda, how come you don't see that Sunny puts his shoes on right? LINDA Why in the h...Close to tears, she turns and with exaggerated care, puts thespoon down and gently puts Sunny in a chair. She starts tountie his shoes. Sunny stares at her while she keeps wipingher eyes. HARRY Let's give Dry Bones a call to see if he is coming or not. Okra likes to exaggerate, keep you waiting all night.Harry slowly gets to his feet and goes in the other room touse the phone. Linda watches him go. She is deep in thought.Babe Brother, attempting to cut the roast before it is ready,is pushed aside by Linda, who is almost out of control withrage. LINDA Why don't you wait?Babe Brother, attempting to forcibly cut a piece of roast,slings Linda's arm away. His hand accidentally hits her inthe eye.Linda grabs the fork, poised to strike, but gains control ofherself She looks like a person who is on the verge of havinga breakdown. She goes back to putting the shoes on Sunny.Babe Brother, feeling sorry, doesn't know what to do. Heautomatically picks up the fork and washes it off. Lindapicks up Sunny.INT. DINING ROOM - BABE BROTHER'S HOUSE - NIGHTLinda is standing at the door, with a red eye, welcomingHarry's friends, which seem to be a long line of sicklypeople. DISSOLVE TO:INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHTLinda is busy serving everyone, running in and out of thekitchen bringing more things, and removing used plates, etc.Linda's eye is swollen and discolored. The guests look atLinda's eye and then cast a naughty-boy glance at BabeBrother.Linda stops serving to pay attention to an elderly man, whodeliberately bends one of her spoons. She catches another manputting a fork in his pocket and an elderly lady putting acigarette out in one of her plates.As she is about to confront the man about pocketing herspoon, a peal of LAUGHTER forces her to turn around only towitness a lady knocking over a glass filled with a greendrink with her elbow. The stain spreads across the tablecloth in an even manner like a single wave. She watches itmove from one end of the table to the other.Harry is seated in the middle. The composition hints at TheLast Supper.INT. BEDROOM - NIGHTLinda is reading a book to Sunny, who has his coffee can ofmarbles emptied on the bed. The NOISE from the party in thenext room is clearly heard. Every time she hears somethingCRASHING to the floor, she wrenches. Babe Brother comes inand stands in the doorway. Linda's eye is still swollen. BABE BROTHER You okay? LINDA I'm okay. Go back to your friends.Babe Brother closes the door and leaves Linda reading storiesof Brer Rabbit to Sunny. She stops reading to look at himplaying marbles on the bed. She smiles.EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - DAYFive weighty Women, dressed in church robes, and the Preacherwalk up Gideon's steps.Suzie invites the church members in. PREACHER Sister, we've come to see how you were doing. We came to ask if we could pray over Gideon.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAYGideon is asleep. The church members gather around his bed.The Preacher puts his hand on the foot of the bed anddiscovers that there is something strange under the covers.Suzie looks at him and lifts the covers at the foot of thebed. Gideon's feet are resting on dead leaves. SUZIE I put some Plummer Christian Leaves under his feet to draw the fever out. PREACHER What else have you been giving him? SUZIE I crossed his stomach with cold oil and gave him some cow tea. PREACHER Suzie, I would think you would depend on prayer rather than these old fashion remedies. Let us read from the Bible.The Preacher opens his Bible and reads silently. The choirHUMS and begin to sway. Gideon's SNORING is very competitive.The choir becomes louder. Gideon starts to TALK in his sleep.Suzie is alarmed.CLOSE UP GIDEON'S EAR.THE SOUND OF A TRAIN WHISTLE IS HEARD. DISSOLVE TO:INT. PHOTO STUDIO, 1930 - DAY (DREAM EFX)A lady steps upon the stage which has different backdrops.She is the same lady in a photo that Gideon has hanging inone of the kid's rooms. The photographer, who is off-screen,asks about the background. PHOTOGRAPHER (O.S.) What scene would you like in the background? LADY Something pleasant. PHOTOGRAPHER (O.S.) We have plantations.The woman shakes her head. PHOTOGRAPHER (O.S.) (CONT'D) Natchez, cotton fields, Harlem, sunflowers, the Mississippi River. LADY Put the river behind me.A large picture of the Mississippi appears behind the lady.It changes from a painted backdrop to a moving picture. Thereis a storm developing off in the distance. The SOUND ofthunder is heard. The picture in the background then changesto a boy on a mule.EXT. WET DIRT ROAD - DAY (RAINING) (DREAM EFX)The boy on the gray mule doesn't have a shirt on. A lightmist like rain covers him. Gideon walks along the picketfence towards the boy on the mule.Ahead of Gideon seems to be a puddle but as he approaches, hediscovers that it is an abyss. The boy and the mule on theother side fade away. Everything FADES TO BLACK.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAYThe Preacher turns a page in the Bible. Gideon has his mouthopen like a fish trying to get air. The Choir continues toSING. The Preacher gets down on his knees and holds Gideon'shand; he bows his head. The Choir stops singing. The BessieSmith recording of "Muddy Water" is coming from somewhere inthe house. The Preacher looks around. Suzie is more puzzled.She goes to find where the music is coming from.INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAYSuzie knocks on the door. No one answers. She peeps in. Noone is in the room.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOMThe Preacher and the choir all have their hands on Gideon.Suzie enters the room. SUZIE I don't know where that music is coming from.INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAYJunior and Pat are helping Linda carry her baggage inside asSunny reluctantly follows. It is obvious that Linda has leftBabe Brother. SUNNY I want my daddy. JUNIOR Boy, hush that noise and get in this house. Make haste. SUNNY I want my daddy; I told you. JUNIOR Rhonda, drag him in here. If you be nice, I will take you to Disneyland.Pat, Linda and Junior put the suitcases down. PAT Now you don't have to say anything if you don't want to. JUNIOR I want to hear what happened. My brother is a jackass and a damn fool. The both of you have been as scarce as hen's teeth.Linda looks down, embarrassed. PAT Rhonda, take Sunny in the backyard. Take a bowl so you can pick some strawberries. Sunny will enjoy it.Rhonda and Sunny leave. Pat turns on Junior about talking badabout Babe Brother and Linda in front of Sunny. PAT You shouldn't talk about the boy's father in front of him. This is family business and we have to pull together. JUNIOR Whether the boy hears it or not, the man is still a jackass. Everyone should have some mother wit. LINDA Something just took control of him. He stays out all night and comes home with a pocket full of money. PAT It's probably Harry, but I hate to mention his name, because every time we say something about him something bad happens.EXT. BACKYARD - DAYRhonda and Sunny are looking under a strawberry plant. Sunnyhas strawberry stains around his mouth and on his shirt.Rhonda is putting her strawberries in the bowl. After gettinga bowl full, they lay on the grass, eating strawberries whilelooking up at the clouds slowly drifting by.EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAYBabe Brother is driving along a country road while Harry,sitting in the front seat next to him, yawns. Harry is tired. HARRY Let us walk awhile. I grow weary when I sit still too long.Babe Brother's car stops in an orchard-like area.EXT. ORCHARD - DAYBabe Brother and Harry get out of the car. They walk on apath that takes them under low hanging tree limbs. It getsdarker as they go deeper into the orchard. Babe Brother findsthe going rough and loses his footing. HARRY Give me your arm lest you fall.Harry has to help him stay on his feet. Babe Brother finds itnecessary to take Harry's arm. Babe Brother stops and Harrywalks a few more steps ahead and waits for Babe Brother. Justahead sitting on a branch is a huge white owl camouflaged bytree branches. BABE BROTHER I could swear I heard my son call me. HARRY You probably heard the wind stirring up those dead leaves over there. BABE BROTHER I heard his voice as clear as day. I better get back. Maybe something is wrong.Babe Brother turns and starts hurrying back before Harry canobject. He walks slowly after Babe Brother who is doublingthe distance between himself and Harry as he runs through theorchard to his car. Harry stops and looks around.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYPat, Linda and Junior are seated at the table. The suitcasesare in the middle of the floor. LINDA I told Babe Brother that if Harry sets foot in our house again, I'm taking Sunny and leaving. Just as I said that, here come Harry and his old resurrected friends, hobbling up the steps. JUNIOR Is that how you got that black eye? PAT Don't ask that. LINDA No, this was an accident. JUNIOR Sure. LINDA It was unintentional. JUNIOR Babe Brother reminds me of the story of the man who wanted to be sizable. He wanted to be tall but what he was really short on was brains. There was a time when people had moon fever were treated with leeches.The phone rings and Junior goes to pick it up. Linda's andPat's attention is focused on the phone. Junior hands thephone to Linda. JUNIOR (CONT'D) It's that nut of yours.Linda hesitates but Pat takes the phone from Junior and putsit in her hand. LINDA What do you want? (beat) No. Nothing happened to him.Sunny and Rhonda enter. Linda turns to look. Sunny's handsand face look bloody from eating strawberries. She puts thephone down and examines his dirty face. Pat brings Linda awet towel.INT. THE BAKERS' GARAGE - NIGHTMR. BAKER, a well built black man in his late 40's, is makinga new fishing pole. He is very involved. Mrs. Baker isstanding beside him with her arms folded. She stares at him.Mr. Baker glances at her. MR. BAKER What are you doing? MRS. BAKER Counting the gray hairs in your head. MR. BAKER Counting the what? What does that have to do with the price of butter? MRS. BAKER I was just trying to make conversation. MR. BAKER Where is Skip? MRS. BAKER He is in his pigeon cage. MR. BAKER I'm sorry he got those birds. MRS. BAKER You know the man next door is near death.Mr. Baker doesn't answer. He pauses for a moment of thought.Mrs. Baker sees that she is not going to get a response fromher husband. She picks up an eyelet and Mr. Baker looks ather as if to say, keep your hands off. She gets the messageand lays the eyelet back on the work bench. MRS. BAKER (CONT'D) He must have gotten rid of those chickens. You don't hear them crowing anymore... I kind of miss it now.Mr. Baker admires his pole. He looks very closely at thedetails of his work.Rodney comes in, polishing his horn. Mr. Baker's expressionchanges as he watches Rodney out of the corner of his eye.Mrs. Baker gives Rodney a motherly pat on the head. Rodneyputs the trumpet to his mouth. MR. BAKER Don't blow that thing in here. You blow that thing when I'm at work.EXT. STREET - DAYThere is a man lying on a bus bench with his belongings. Aspotted dog is standing guard next to the bench. The dog'sreflection is caught in a puddle of water. The dog hascircles and sixes painted over his body.Old John taps on the bench with his pipe. The man lying onthe bench stirs and gives Old John a wave to indicate that heis alright. Old John slowly gets his cart moving again.EXT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAYBabe Brother drives around the block past Junior's house.INT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAYJunior is at the window, looking out. JUNIOR Why doesn't he just park his car and come in and apologize?EXT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAYBabe Brother sits in his car with the windows up. Juniortries to talk to him but Babe Brother will not roll down thewindows. He just stares at Junior, who is getting angry. JUNIOR Roll down the window and let me talk to you.Babe Brother only stares at him. Junior gets more violent andstarts to shake the car.Pat calls from the doorway. PAT Stop it Junior!INT. PREGNANT WOMAN'S ROOM - DAYA woman is in a squatting position. Suzie and her aide areholding the woman by the arms.EXT. JUNIOR'S HOUSE - DAYRhonda is painting her fingernails. Sunny watches her. Shelooks around to see if any adult is watching. She tries totalk Sunny into letting her paint his nails. He refuses butshe tries to pull his hand towards her. He fights his wayfree and stands up and kicks the bottle of nail polish over. RHONDA Mama, come see what Sunny did.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHTSuzie is sitting in a chair; her head is bent forward. Gideonis TALKING in his sleep. She awakes and nods off again. Harrysticks his head in. HARRY How is he doing? SUZIE As long as he keeps his throat clear, he is able to get some rest. HARRY I made a fresh pot of coffee. Okra and I thought you need a rest. I'll stand guard. Okra wants to talk to you anyway.Harry helps Suzie to her feet.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHTOkra is painfully standing on his bad feet. He is in hissecurity-guard uniform, holding a bouquet of greens. As Suziecomes in, Okra tries to stand upright at attention. OKRA I brought you these greens and some salt meat. SUZIE That is very thoughtful of you. I haven't had time to tend to my garden like I should.Suzie takes the greens and puts them on the counter. Shesqueezes Okra's hand as a thank you. She pours him a cup ofcoffee. Okra eases down into the chair. He crosses his legsand starts massaging his feet.Suzie get herself a cup of coffee and sits opposite him. Shestretches and tries to hold back a yawn. Okra looks at her ina slightly desirous way. OKRA You know Gideon and I are lodge brothers and it has always been a policy to take care of the wives if something happens to our brother. SUZIE You are very sweet, but Gideon has already taken care of everything in case something happens to him. He has a policy. OKRA If you become a widow, you will need someone around to fix the whatnots. We like for the widow to marry someone in the lodge. I know Gideon ain't gone yet, but there will be a lot of his old friends coming around to get in line. I just want you to consider this as a kind of a conditional proposal, to be first in line so to speak.Suzie keeps herself under control; she tries to find words tosay. She stands up. SUZIE Excuse me. I have to go feed my dog.She turns the fire out from under the coffee pot and exitsthe back door.Okra unties his shoes and begins to massage his feet.INT. BEDROOM / EXT. YARD - NIGHTHarry is sitting by the bed, just visible through the window.He seems restless.EXT. GIDEON'S BACKYARD - DAYThere is only one hen left in the coop. The garden is full ofweeds. The sunflowers are bent by the force of the wind. Abag is thrown over the fence.The shadows of pigeons flying overhead race along the ground. DISSOLVE TO:INT. KITCHEN - DAYTwo shadows on the wall are facing each other. The shadowsare the heads of two women, Suzie and Hattie. HATTIE You know Harry lied about how that boy Hocker got kilt. And it was Harry who saw Emory last before they found him hanging over a levee like someone would hang a hog. SUZIE I remember Harry always trying to help someone. He got Lulla's daughter out of trouble. He was always running to the store for someone who couldn't leave the house. HATTIE Harry always shows his good side and, like the moon, the other side is black. Back home he always did try to act like the colored gentleman. I'm telling you Harry is nothing but evil. I'm warning you -- you can't keep a wild animal as a pet around children.INT. HARRY'S ROOM - DAYHarry has a plate of food in his hand. He stands facinghimself in the mirror, staring at himself while he eats. Heopens the door to leave but Sunny is in the hallway with hisback turned sweeping. Harry stares at him and decides to goback in his room.INT. KITCHEN - DAY SUZIE You know Okra asked me to marry him the other evening. HATTIE Rush your mouth, girl. No, he didn't. He cannot be that big of a damn fool. SUZIE I asked Harry about it. He didn't own up to it. He said he didn't know what got into Okra. HATTIE He's just raffish. Harry put him up to it. Before evening sun sets, I would have his belongings back on Route 55, that old fox. SUZIE I can't accuse him just dry long 80. HATTIE Everybody who have been associated with Harry end up with pennies over their eyes. SUZIE What must I do? HATTIE If it was left up to me, I would poison him.INT. HALLWAY - DAYHarry sees that it is safe to leave. He sees Sunny sweepingin Gideon's room. Gideon is sound asleep. Sunny is sweepingaround the bed.INT. KITCHEN - DAYHarry comes in and Hattie and Suzie stop talking. Harry isaware that he was the subject. The SOUND of the boy next doorplaying his horn is heard. HARRY Good afternoon, ladies. SUZIE Good afternoon to you.Harry waits for Hattie to respond but it is obvious thatHattie isn't about to speak to him. HATTIE I'm going to check on Gideon.Harry moves out of her way to let her go by. Hattie doesn'teven give him a glance. Harry continues to look at her as shedisappears into Gideon's room. HARRY As God is my witness, I have never done anything to that woman. SUZIE You must have done something to her. HARRY Since she has repented, all she does is throw stones. SUZIE Hattie is a different person now. HARRY I don't make no bones about where I'm going to spend eternity. I have always been wild and you know that. If you are made to feel half a man, what do you think the other half is? SUZIE I'm glad you brought that up as to who you are. I have to know who is in my house. HARRY You invited me. SUZIE Only if you are a good man, a friend. Are you a friend?Harry takes his time in looking for an answer. HARRY Like that boy next door playing that his horn. If he was a friend, he would stop irritating people, but if he stops practicing, he wouldn't be perfect in what he does someday.INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAYHattie enters Harry's room. She goes through his things. Shereads one of his letters. As she walks over to the windowreading his letter, she steps on the plate, cracking it.INT. KITCHEN - DAY SUZIE I want you to leave.Harry looks sad and suddenly a lot older as if what she saidhas taken away some of his life. HARRY Okra, M.C. and Herman want to go back home with me. (beat) Suzie, I'm not a bad fellow; I just like to have a good time. (beat) M.C. is coming by to pick me up tonight. I'll come back to get my things. Well, I hope Gideon recovers. You know I have an extra picture of one of my sons that I would like for you to put with those baby pictures over your dresser. It's better than being in my dusty wallet with addresses and names of people who are no longer on this earth.Suzie takes the picture. She seems as if she has doubts abouthaving asked Harry to leave. HARRY (CONT'D) I'll say my so-longs to Gideon before I leave and I truly wish that he will get well.Suzie continues to look at the picture.INT. HARRY'S BEDROOM - DAYHattie is reading Harry's letters when he appears behind her.Hattie turns but is not surprised or concerned about Harry.She hands him back his letters, looks at him for a moment andgoes. Harry looks down at the cracked dish.INT. HERMAN'S HOUSE - EVENING (RAIN)M.C. and Herman are packing. Okra is all dressed up with apair of Stacy Adams shoes that make his feet lookexaggeratedly long. Babe Brother and Harry are sitting at atable playing blackjack. Okra picks up one thing at a time,making the packing much harder. There is a stack of old dusty78 record; Okra, trying to step over the records, kicks overa box of mothballs that roll across the floor. Okra has tostep over boxes of toilet paper. OKRA Why did you buy so much toilet paper? M.C. I got that on the job when I was a janitor. They didn't pay me.Harry picks up an old cigar box that falls opens. Dice,shotgun shells, some spent .38 slugs and an old rusty knife,a crab apple switch, land on the floor. Harry picks up theknife. HARRY Whose old piece of knife is this? HERMAN That was my brother's knife.Harry gives the knife to Babe Brother and signals him to putit in his pocket.The SOUND of the thunder has an unreal violence to it. HARRY I don't want to wear out welcome, but you can stay in someone's heart longer than you can stay in their house. Come with us, boy. We are going to have a good time. BABE BROTHER This would be a bad time for me to leave. HARRY We are going where the action is. Ain't that right, Okra? (then back to Babe Brother) Let's play for a couple of bucks unless you want to start off with two bits and work our way up. (beat) What would you give to be rich?Babe Brother humps his shoulder. Babe Brother looks at hishand. BABE BROTHER Had Moms and Pops given me my share of what was mine, I could have been rich by now. Linda and I had it all worked out.Harry wins the first hand. HARRY I know your mind is on your wife but you should never treat a woman as an equal. You want to get your wife back, get another woman, one of those big hip women that will ride you till you sweat.Harry wins another hand. M.C. and Okra are still packingwhile Herman is eating Argo Starch. HARRY (CONT'D) Double the stakes?Babe Brother agrees but his thoughts are obviously somewhereelse. Harry studies his hand and looks at Babe Brother; heputs down his hand. Babe Brother wins and is quite pleased.The next series of hands are won by Babe Brother. HARRY (CONT'D) M.C., you ever heard of a real man having one woman? M.C. No, lord! HARRY When one woman puts you out, you have another to take you in. You don't drive around without a spare tire, do you? The more mules you have hitched, the easier it is to plough.Harry loses another hand and Babe Brother suddenly has a pileof money. HARRY Herman, let me borrow a few bucks.Herman stand over him with a roll of bills and peels offseveral. HARRY (CONT'D) Bless you. Bless you.Herman is standing behind Babe Brother, SINGING to himself. HERMAN In the ground there is a hole and green grass growing around the hole. Now in the hole there is tree and green grass growing all around the tree. Now there is a hole in the ground, a tree in the hole and green grass growing around the hole. HARRY Let me share something with you.Harry stops and thinks for a while. HARRY (CONT'D) Hattie is a snake. That woman broke up so many homes and caused a lot of misery and because she calls herself getting religion everything is put right.Okra is taking several shotguns out of the closet. OKRA These damn things are unloaded, ain't they? HARRY It's important to know the difference between the incoming fire and the outgoing fire. As Amos and Andy might say, "We is the outgoing fire." Come with us, son. We'll show you some steaming hot juke joints, steaming hot women. M.C. A pot full of chitlins and a good time. BABE BROTHER Let me go by the house first. HARRY We will wait for you as long as we can. I got to get my things from your mother's house.Babe Brother hurries out. M.C., Herman and Okra flop down inchairs and on the bed and look at their watches.Harry sits at the table tapping out a rhythm on the table andWHISTLING very softly to himself. Suddenly Harry sees thatBabe Brother left the pile of money on the table. A look ofconcern comes over his face.EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - NIGHT (RAIN)It is raining hard. Babe Brother gets out of the car. Runningto get out of the rain, he slips and falls; he tries to getup but slips and falls again. He gets up and walks slowly upthe steps as if he doesn't care whether he gets wet or not.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)Suzie helps him to take his wet coat off. She goes into thekitchen, puts his coat in front of the stove. The knife fallsout. She picks it up and looks at it like she would throw itaway but Babe Brother takes it. BABE BROTHER I need to get my suitcase out of the garage. SUZIE What for? BABE BROTHER I'm going back home with Harry. SUZIE I've heard some foolish things in my life. BABE BROTHER Harry is coming to pick me up. SUZIE Have you lost your mind? Have you thought about your wife and child, not to mention your sick father? And I need your help to move his bed from under the leak in the ceiling. BABE BROTHER I'm busy. SUZIE Don't make me raise my hand to you. You have to see for yourself that you are going in the wrong direction. BABE BROTHER Can't I be myself without you jumping in with your right and wrong? The world is not black and white. Show me one perfect person. If you can't, don't ask me to be. SUZIE I do have a right to ask you to be a little bit better than me and your father because we gave you a better head start. You have no right to complain to us about your not having enough. (forcefully) You sit right there with your no manners self.EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT (RAIN)Junior is carrying a roll of roofing paper. Pat, Rhonda,Linda and Sunny run to the porch to get out of the rain.Junior stacks the roofing paper in the corner of the porchand stamps the mud off his shoes.INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)Junior, Pat, Linda and Rhonda come in to help Suzie move thebed from under the rain dripping through the hole in theceiling.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)Sunny stands in the doorway watching his father sharpen hisknife that he got from Harry. Babe Brother is unaware thathis son is watching him.INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN) JUNIOR Where is Babe Brother? SUZIE Brother is in the kitchen. JUNIOR How come you didn't ask Babe Brother to help you? SUZIE He said he was busy. He is mad 'cause he wanted to get in the garage to get his things so he could go with Harry.Linda has a surprised look on her face. JUNIOR So he is busy?INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)Babe Brother is preoccupied sharpening his knife with asharpening stone. He is almost in a trance. Junior comes inrather angrily. Sunny goes and sits in the shadows in thedining room. JUNIOR Why in the hell didn't you help mama? BABE BROTHER I told her I would if she would give me time. JUNIOR I bet you if your master would have told you to fix the hole in the roof, you would have rebuilt the whole damn house. BABE BROTHER You always got the best of it around here and when Dad always talks about my son, it is always you, so you fix the roof. JUNIOR That is a damn lie and you know it. Every time father asks you to do something, you either half-ass do it or run off and hide. Mama asked you to turn the dirt in her garden and you told her, with your smart ass self, that you weren't a farmer; get Junior to do it. Every time someone asks you to do something, you always say, tell Junior to do it. Boy, you ought to grow up. BABE BROTHER I told you about calling me boy. I ain't no boy. See, you and Dad got a bad habit of calling me boy. You call me boy in front of my wife. You think I'm going to fix the roof? I hope the wind blows the whole damn thing off and it pours down rain. JUNIOR I ought to break your damn neck.INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)Sunny is sitting in a chair listening to his father and uncleargue in the kitchen. A car outside passes and the lightsfrom the car form a crochet-like moving pattern on the wallbehind him. Sunny is only lit for a moment.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)Babe Brother starts gathering up his things to leave. BABE BROTHER I'm leaving and don't even call me when the shoe falls 'cause all he did for me was to try and run my life. I'm tired of people saying Babe Brother this, Babe Brother that. What's my name? JUNIOR You dumb ass, it's Babe Brother. BABE BROTHER My name is Sam. Samuel.Babe Brother attempts to get up but Junior pushes him down. JUNIOR Sit down!Babe Brother hits Junior on the jaw, driving him backwards,causing the overhead lamp to sway violently.INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)Suzie, Pat and Linda hear the noise coming from the kitchenand rush to see what is going on.INT. KITCHEN - RAINY NIGHTBabe Brother and Junior are both reaching for the knife.Junior is on top of Babe Brother, who is stretched out on thetable trying to reach the knife. Junior grabs the knife firstand Babe Brother flips over to defend himself. Babe Brothergrabs Junior's wrist as Junior tries to push the knifeagainst his throat.Suzie comes in and grabs part of the knife with her hand andJunior's wrist with her other hand. Pat and Linda try to pullthe two men apart while pleading with Junior.Blood drips from Suzie's hand to the table, forming a poolunder Babe Brother's head. PAT Stop it! Stop it! Look what you are doing!Babe Brother's eyes are rolled to the back. Junior's eyes arehuge; he has an animal look on his face. The SOUND ofstruggling people breathing heavily is amplified. The pool ofblood on the table grows larger.Junior slowly becomes aware of the blood and his bodyrelaxes. He calmly releases the knife.Junior takes his mother's hand. JUNIOR Someone get some lard out of the ice box.Pat attempts to get the lard but pain in her stomach forcesher to sit down. Linda gets the lard out and hands it toJunior. Babe Brother raises himself. The blood from Suzie'sdripping from his head. Rhonda is trying to hold Sunny back.Junior holds his mother's hand under the faucet. It is a deepcut. The bleeding won't stop.Pat is sitting at the blood-stained table unable to move. Sheis PANTING, sweating, and holding her stomach. Linda iscaught between trying to help Suzie and attending to Pat.Babe Brother helps to make a wad of cloth to press in herhand to Stop the bleeding. LINDA You are going to need some stitches. We better take her to the emergency hospital.Babe Brother is shamefully calm now and very humble. BABE BROTHER I'll drive her to the hospital. JUNIOR We will take her. You all stay here and watch Dad. LINDA What about Pat? PAT I'm okay now.Suzie attempts to go see Gideon but Babe Brother and Juniorturn her to the door. Going through the kitchen door, Juniorintentionally turns his back to Babe Brother. Babe Brotherstares at Junior's back as he walks ahead.INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)The automatic doors open and Junior, Babe Brother and Suzieenter. There is a long line of people waiting at theregistration window as well as groups of people filling outforms. Other patients are seated and waiting patiently to seethe doctor.Suzie finally gets to the registration window. A NURSE,white, 25, with extremely long fingernails that curve backaround, is surprisingly sympathetic. NURSE What sort of emergency are you here for? SUZIE I cut my hand. NURSE Let me take a look at it.Suzie puts her hand through the window. The Nurse stands upto get a better look. The Nurse takes the wad out of herhand. The bleeding has stopped.The Nurse takes a deep breath. The Nurse glances up to noticethe blood stains on the back of Babe Brother head. NURSE (CONT'D) Are you all together? JUNIOR Yes. NURSE The bleeding has stopped but it will need stitches. You will have to fill out this form. How will this be covered, insurance, cash or check? JUNIOR Don't worry about it. It will be paid. Just let her see a doctor. SUZIE I have Medicare.The Nurse hands Suzie a form, but Babe Brother takes theform. The Nurse looks again at Babe Brother's head. NURSE Do you need to see the doctor too? BABE BROTHER No, just my mother.Babe Brother fills out the form with Suzie's help and handsthe form back to the Nurse.They find a seat all together. DISSOLVE:INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)The room slowly fills with people and Babe Brother and Junioroffer their seats to those there for medical care. DISSOLVE:INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)Two Police Officers bring in a man handcuffed to a bed. Thewoman officer carries a shotgun. The male police officercarries a clip board. The Prisoner is obviously in nocondition to escape or cause trouble. They are allowed to godirectly to the emergency room without waiting. DISSOLVE:INT. HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)More injured people come but in spite of their condition theyare told that they have to wait. There is only standing room.Junior and Babe Brother are standing next to the wall.On the other side of the room, Suzie is looking quietly atthem as if she is in deep thought.Junior walks over to the reception desk. JUNIOR Why is it so crowded? NURSE Well, it is Friday night and a full moon.Junior whispers to Babe Brother. They both start to laugh.Suzie looks up and finds them in a fit of laughter. A faintsmile appears on her face.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)Gideon is slowly getting up. He looks around. He calls forSuzie. He slowly gets to his feet. GIDEON Suzie, I'm hungry.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHT (RAIN)He walks by Linda, Pat, Rhonda, and Sunny, who are sleepingin chairs, on the floor and on the sofa. GIDEON Suzie.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN)Gideon opens the refrigerator and starts taking out bowls offood and placing them on the table. He puts on a pot ofcoffee. GIDEON Suzie.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT (RAIN) (LATER)Gideon is busy eating almost everything in sight. A group ofmystified and sleepy faces appear at the door. Pat, Linda,Rhonda and Sunny are all looking rather dumbfounded.EXT. BACKYARD - MORNINGEverything is wet from the night's rain. The garden looksmore like a graveyard. Moisture drips from the sunflowers.Gideon's nervous looking rooster jumps the fence and startsto CROW.Skip is out early throwing rocks at his birds. The rocks landon Gideon's roof.EXT. HOUSE - MORNINGBabe Brother and Junior help Suzie out of the car. She hasher left hand bandaged. They are extremely exhausted. Theywalk up the porch to find Harry holding the door open. HARRY I can't believe what I heard took place.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYOn seeing Suzie, Sunny jumps up, knocking the can of marblesover the kitchen floor. He runs to give Suzie a hug. Sunnywants to touch her bandaged hand, but Linda stops him. SUZIE How is Gideon doing? RHONDA He is asleep now, but he was up all night eating.As Suzie goes to Gideon's room, she comes face to face withHarry. She doesn't say anything. HARRY I came to pick up my things.INT. GIDEON'S BEDROOM - DAYGideon is SNORING loudly. On the night-stand is a plate withfood left on it. Suzie feels his forehead.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYHarry sadly gets up. He looks at Babe Brother. Linda steps infront of Babe Brother. LINDA You ought to go see how your father is doing and then wash that blood off you and change shirts.Babe Brother is surrounded by Linda and Sunny who has hiseyes fixed on Harry. They move as one heading for thebedroom.Harry seems a lot older. He sadly walks towards the kitchenwith his coffee cup.LOW ANGLE SHOT: Harry is slowly walking towards the MARBLESthat are scattered over the kitchen floor.INT. BEDROOM - DAYPat, Linda, Junior, Rhonda, Babe Brother, Sunny and Suzie areall standing around waiting for Gideon to wake up. SUZIE Gideon.Gideon's only response is to SNORE louder. PAT How long is Harry going to hang around?Babe Brother is in a corner all by himself. He looks downwhen Pat asks the question about Harry.A loud CRASHING SOUND comes from the kitchen.INT. KITCHEN - DAYHarry is trying to raise himself from the floor. He pausesfor a moment and then collapses. Harry is in a lot of pain.Harry's body contorts and then remains still.Babe Brother, Junior, Pat, and Linda, Suzie run in. Suzietries to see if he is alive. Babe Brother tries to give himmouth to mouth resuscitation but Linda pulls him away. Juniortries to push down on Harry's chest.Babe Brother stares down at Harry and then goes slowly backinto the living room. Pat is on the phone dialing theparamedics. Everyone stands around Harry.INT. KITCHEN - DAYTwo PARAMEDICS work on Harry. One of the paramedics is ayoung Asian. The other is white with red hair. They listenfor a heart beat and shake their heads in a negative manner.They pack up their medical case. The Asian's accent is verydifficult to understand. WHITE PARAMEDIC There is nothing we can do for him.The Paramedics start to leave without the body. JUNIOR Well, aren't you going to take him with you? ASIAN PARAMEDIC If he had died in our care, we would be required to take him. Since we found him dead, you will have to wait for the county to pick him up. JUNIOR How long will that take? WHITE PARAMEDIC That would depend on how busy it is. I'm sorry. DISSOLVE:INT. KITCHEN - DAYHarry is stretched out on the floor. A blanket coverseverything except his shoes.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYHattie, Marsh, Okra, Herman, and M.C. all come in. Marshlooks cheerful. MARSH What happened? JUNIOR He slipped on some marbles that were on the floor. Then his heart gave out. LINDA (to Sunny) I told you to always put those marbles up and not to leave them just anywhere. PAT The poor thing is not to blame. Rhonda, take Sunny for a walk.Marsh hands Rhonda several dollars. MARSH Here, go around to the store and buy what you want. HATTIE Would anybody object if I take a look at him? HERMAN I don't think Harry would like it.Hattie goes over and pulls the blanket back. Okra, M.C. andHerman hurry over to take a quick glance. They huddle behindHattie, peeping over her shoulder. HATTIE I never noticed how big his eyes were. DISSOLVE:INT. BATHROOM - EVENINGLinda is helping Babe Brother wash Suzie's blood out of hishair. She dries his hair with a towel. Sonny hands BabeBrother a clean shirt, Gideon's shirt. He puts it on.INT. BEDROOM - NIGHTGideon is sitting on the edge of his bed looking through thescraps of leftovers on his plate. He puts his pants on. As hemoves about, his joints SNAP and POP. He picks up the emptyplate.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTBabe Brother is on the phone with the county morgue. He getsinto an argument with the people on the other end of thephone. BABE BROTHER Mister... Mister... Excuse me for cutting you off but we pay taxes too. We should not have to pay you to take a 24-hour lunch break.Babe Brother hands the phone to Linda. BABE BROTHER (CONT'D) The coroner said that he was out here, and knocked on the door and no one was here.Junior steps over the body, holding a pot of coffee in hishand.The Preacher is sitting with Suzie talking in a low voice.Pat, Rhonda and Sunny come in with boxes of chicken snack.Linda hangs up the phone. LINDA He doesn't know when he will be out this way again. Somebody downtown is going to hear about this. M.C. They just do that in the colored neighborhood. If he had been white, they would had him on his feet and out of here. PAT I got white meat and I got dark meat. I know it sounds cruel but we have to eat.Gideon comes in walking very slowly, holding his plate out.Everyone is shocked. Gideon is completely unaware of theperiod that he has been sick. GIDEON What, are you having another party? SUZIE You better come sit down. You are still sick. GIDEON Gal, you're talking to John Henry. When was I sick? JUNIOR You have been out for almost three weeks.The Preacher gives him a pat on the back and shakes Gideon'shand. PREACHER We had long conversations with the Lord about you. Didn't we, Sister Suzie? I said we need him down here, Lord.Gideon smiles in appreciation. He pushes his plate out toPat, indicating that he wants it filled with chicken. Gideonis about to bite into the chicken when he notices Harry'sfeet sticking out. He points with the chicken in his hand. Hehas a mystified look on his face. OKRA That's our friend Harry. GIDEON Not our Harry? OKRA I wish it wasn't.Gideon seems to weaken for a moment. GIDEON What happened to him? HATTIE He dropped dead. HERMAN Hattie, you can be so mean. GIDEON How long has he been dead? SUZIE Since this morning. GIDEON What happened to your hand? SUZIE I cut it on an old rusty knife.Gideon is deeply concerned. GIDEON What did you put on it? SUZIE It's healing now.Gideon looks over at his two sons as if to ask them about it. GIDEON I hope you will take care of your mother better than that when I'm gone.Junior and Babe Brother both have their heads down. Linda andSunny move closer to Babe Brother. GIDEON (CONT'D) Babe Brother, is that my shirt that you're wearing? BABE BROTHER Yes. GIDEON How come you're not wearing my shoes? BABE BROTHER They're too big.Gideon stares at Babe Brother and then looks around towardsHarry. GIDEON When is the undertaker coming? LINDA They can't say. I'll try calling them again.Hattie moves closer to Herman and speaks so only he can hear. HATTIE Why don't M.C. and you drag him to your house?Herman moves away with a look of disdain. MARSH Harry didn't have any relatives living, did he? M.C. Harry was in the world by himself. MARSH Somebody has to take responsibility for him. PAT Why don't you look through his things to see if you can find a number?Okra, Marsh, Hattie, Herman, and M.C. go to Harry's room,leaving Suzie and Gideon sitting opposite each other with thedoor to the kitchen separating them. Junior, the Preacher andPat are eating chicken. Linda is on the phone trying to getthrough to the morgue. LINDA How do you like that? They hung up in my face. I'll fix them. I'll show them just how mean I can get.She rapidly dials the number. There is a BUSY SIGNAL. LINDA (CONT'D) This has been a nightmare.INT. BEDROOM - RIGHTM.C. and Marsh are going through Harry's boxes. They take outold blues records, books, a big Bible, and books on Dunbar. MARSH These are letters to his son.Hattie reads the letters in a corner by herself. She stopsreading for a moment. HATTIE I still don't know if I was right about Harry.She seems frustrated with herself not being able to come toterms about who was Harry.EXT. FRONT YARD - NIGHTA crowd of people are standing around looking at Gideon'shouse.INT. FRONT ROOM - NIGHTThe Preacher is sleep in his chair, SNORING loudly. BabeBrother and Linda are sitting together, talking in almost awhisper. Sunny is asleep in his lap. Babe Brother is findingit difficult to apologize for his recent behavior. BABE BROTHER I have more sense than to give up everything, my family, you and Sunny. It wasn't me, I mean the real me inside my body. I'm glad it's over. It's like a veil has been lifted. LINDA Like a veil has been lifted? BABE BROTHER It's like I've been swimming in muddy waters. LINDA Like muddy waters? BABE BROTHER It was like all those things old country people try to tell you what hell is like. LINDA You were in hell? BABE BROTHER I couldn't believe the things I was doing. It was like an internal struggle going on inside my body. LINDA Do you think you won? BABE BROTHER It was nip and tuck. LINDA And what lesson have we learned from all of this, Babe Br... Sam... I mean Samuel? BABE BROTHER I guess it proves you really care about me. You hung in there.Linda looks at Babe Brother for a length of time. GIDEON When are you boys going to fix that roof? BABE BROTHER Soon as I rest a bit. (beat) I meant as soon as we are back to normal again, anytime. GIDEON Here I am thinking about myself when poor Harry is resting on the floor of the kitchen.INT. KITCHEN - NIGHTHarry's body lies there motionless.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAYThe Preacher is SNORING violently.Babe Brother is asleep on the floor. Sunny is asleep sittingon Linda's lap. Linda's feet rest on Babe Brother's chest.Junior and Pat are looking at the baby pictures. Pat isholding her hand across her stomach feeling the baby kick.Rhonda is asleep in a chair.Suzie and Gideon are sitting at the dining room table. Suzieis cutting the dead leaves off of a small potted plant. SUZIE It feels like a storm has passed... Hattie read some of Harry's letters to a woman he had a child by. The child had died and he was writing to give her some comfort. Hattie didn't know that deep down at the bottom of Harry's hate, there was some love.The SOUND of Rodney's trumpet is heard but is no longerirritating. GIDEON Did I ever tell you the story about the man who wanted to make his own mind up about heaven and hell? He didn't want nobody's opinion but his own.Suzie doesn't pay any attention; she is involved with herpotted plant. Gideon looks over at the Preacher, who is stillasleep. GIDEON (CONT'D) He's going to check out heaven first. He gets a round trip ticket to heaven. He gets in heaven and finds it just like back home. People dripping with sweat, working in the fields, hardly surviving. He asked a man who was getting a drink of water, "I thought the streets were paved with gold." "They are but you won't see them," he said. "Boy, you got to work day and night cause idleness is sinfulness." So he takes the other half of his ticket and takes the express to hell. He sees people stretched out on their backs kicking back, picking their teeth. "Man, this is a dream." He asked, "What's you'll doing?" They all hollered back, "Sinning." The devil was shaking hands with everyone and came up to him and said, "Please to meet you." He asked, "I thought you'll was supposed to be burning in fire." Someone said, "Man, ain't no fire down here except under that pot of chitlins." The man was going go ask the preacher back on earth... SUZIE I don't want to hear any joke about colored people being in hell. You're being irreverent. GIDEON I'm almost finished. I'm about to come to the punch line. SUZIE I don't want to hear any tales about colored people... GIDEON But these are white people, anybody. The punch... SUZIE I don't care to hear any jokes about people being in hell. This cut on my hand reminds me that it is nothing to laugh at. GIDEON It's only a tale.The RATTLING of pots and dishes starts suddenly. Harry's bodystarts to sway gently as if he were about to get up.Everyone is frozen. Babe Brother and Linda remain asleep. Therocking caused by the earthquake doesn't wake them.M.C., Herman, Okra and Hattie and Marsh enters the diningroom. Harry's feet are seen in the kitchen still swaying. M.C Is that an earthquake? HERMAN It's something.Babe Brother wakes in a sweat and sits next to Linda like achild needing protection. BABE BROTHER I'm cold. I need to get out into the sunlight. JUNIOR What is it, noontime? PREACHER I wonder how they going to bury this man. HATTIE Plant him in Potter's Field. He doesn't need a marked grave. HERMAN Hattie, your true colors are unbearable. You got some mean ways. Don't worry about the boy getting a burial. He still has some friends left on this earth. HATTIE His winter has come and gone and I know right now he is answering for a lot of things.M.C., Okra and Herman move away from Hattie. PREACHER It is my job to pray for his soul and I would like to do that.EXT. GIDEON'S HOUSE - DAYRhonda is sitting next to Sunny on the front porch. She hasan angry expression. Sunny is trying to please her byoffering her his airplane.He pushes the airplane near her and she pushes it back with aviolent shove. He persists in offering her his airplane.A crowd of people is still standing around in front ofGideon's house. MAN Hey boy, you still got that dead man in your house.Sunny and Rhonda don't respond. A middle-aged woman,VIRGINIA, one of Gideon's neighbors, passes Sunny and Rhonda,knocks on the screen door and goes in.INT. FRONT ROOM - DAY VIRGINIA I know you all haven't had a chance to cook or do anything with that dead man in your kitchen. You must be starved to death. Some of your neighbors have got together and we set up a picnic table in my backyard with food and everything to feed all you all. SUZIE Virginia, that is so wonderful of you all! MARSH If the dead wagon comes, we ought to leave a note telling them we'll be down the street at a picnic.Gideon comes back in with Suzie, who is helping tie his tie.They all line up and file out the front door with Suzie andGideon leading the way. Pat is holding her stomach with athoughtful look on her face. PAT I think we better be ready.Junior looks concerned as he follows Pat out the door. Sunnyfollows Rhonda, who is still mad at him. Babe Brother andLinda are the last ones out. Babe Brother takes a long lookin the direction of Harry as Linda pulls him out. She slamsthe door.INT. KITCHEN - DAYHarry's body lies on the floor. On the kitchen sink areSuzie's jars of cuttings, which have developed a maze ofroots. THE END