"WILLOW" Story by George Lucas Screenplay by Bob Dolman First Draft Third Revision November 14, 1986(c) LFL 1986Lucasfilm LTD.All Rights Reserved Act IFADE IN:EXT.. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAYUnder gloomy sky a huge fortress looms on a volcanicmountainside. From within WE HEAR the agonizing screamof a woman giving birth.INT.. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAYThe scream continues as WE MOVE THROUGH the grim corri-dors of the castle TOWARD stairs leading down to adungeon.INT.. DUNGEON - DAYSilhouetted in sadows, three Nockmaar MINIONS standguard. In a jail cell, sex fully pregnant WOMEN watchfrom behind iron bars. The screaming stops. There's amoment of silence. As WE MOVE INTO another jail cellWE HEAR a slap and the first cry of a newborn BABY.In the cell a black-robed DRUID watches intensely asETHNA, a midwife, leans over the MOTHER and wraps thebaby in swaddling. DRUID Is it a girl? ETHNA It is a girl. DRUID Show me its arm.Ethna peels back the swaddling. On the baby's arm is asmall marking. DRUID It's true then. I must tell Queen Bavmorda.With great urgency the druid hurries up the dungeonstairs. Ethna gently places the baby on the mother'sbreast. The mother comforst the baby lovingly until itstops crying. Then she reaches out and clasps themidwife's wrist. MOTHER Ethna, please. Help me. They're going to kill my baby.Ethna nervously looks out at the guards, then shakesher head at the mother. ETHNA They'll kill you. MOTHER Please save my baby.Ethna hesitates. Then decides. She quickly wraps to-gether some rags and gives them to the mother. ETHNA Pretend this is the child. MOTHER Thank you, Ethna. Thank you.The mother kisses her baby and hands it to Ethna, whohides the baby inside the basket of rags. Ethna car-ries the basket past the guards and up the stairs.The mother lies back and sighs with relief. Then shehears clinking bootsteps and her eyes widen with fear.QUEEN BAVMORDA sweeps down the dungeon stairs, herblack robes flowing behind her. The druid hurriesalongside. BAVMORDA We will start the ritual at dusk. You're certain this is the one? DRUID It bears the markings. BAVMORDA I must see for myself! Just as the omen foretold!The guards fearfully move aside as Bavmorda enters thecell. BAVMORDA So. You *were* the one. MOTHER Yes. But nothing you can do will stop the prophecy. BAVMORDA This child will have no power over me....Bavmorda grabs the rags away from the mother and anxi-ously tears them apart. BAVMORDA (furiously) Where's the baby!One of the guards looks up the stairs. GUARD The midwife!Bavmorda flies into a rage. BAVMORDA Find that baby! Use the dogs! Sorsha!Two guards draw swords and charge upstairs. Bavmordagrabs the third guard and nods toward the mother. BAVMORDA Kill her.Bavmorda storms away with the druid. WE SEE the shadowof the guard move over the terrified mother. War drumsbegin to beat out an alarm.EXT. SNOWY MOUNTAINSIDE - DAYTITLES BEGIN. The midwife hurries through swirlingshow, clutching the baby.EXT. VILLAGE - DAYNockmaar troops on horseback charge into a desolatevillage, driving ferocious DEATH DOGS into huts,violently searching for the baby. The oppressed, poorVILLAGERS are yanked into the street. Some of them arebeaten. One is killed.The midwife hides behind a hut, still holding the baby,then runs away from the village.EXT. GRASSLAND - DAYEthna treks across an open grass field.EXT. WOODS - NIGHTShe huddles by a fire, exhausted and hungry, herclothes filthy and torn, and she rocks the crying baby.She hears dogs howling in the distance. She clutchesthe baby, kicks out the fire, and runs.EXT. OCEAN CLIFFSIDE - DAYShe scrambles over rocks on a windswept coastline.EXT. FOREST - DAWNEthna runs desperately for her life. Chasing her aretwo vicious DEATH DOGS. She scrambles across a shallowriver. She claws at rock and tears away sticks anddriftwood matted together with weeds. Into this sheplaces the baby and sets it afloat downstream. DEATH DOG Bordak!The dogs lunge from the woods and splash across theriver. The midwife claws her way up a steep bank, lur-ing the dogs. As they attack her: MIDWIFE I don't have her! No! No!She grabs a stick and tries to defend herself, thrash-ing at the snarling dogs.From the baby's view, as it floats down the river, WESEE the dogs kill the midwife beyond the distant trees.EXT. DOWNRIVER - DAY - MONTAGEThe little raft of sticks swirls precariously in thecurrent. It glances off jutting rocks, tumbles overrapids, and scrapes under overhanging trees.EXT. RIVERBANK - DAYAt last the raft catches in some weeks, almost dumpingthe baby.TITLE SEQUENCE ENDSSuddenly WE HEAR rustling leaves, possibly anotherDeath Dog. Then WE HEAR giggling. Two children, RANONand MIMS, watch in amazement from the riverbank.EXT. UFGOOD FARM - DAYHolding onto a plow, WILLOW UFGOOD struggles behind ahuge hog. From a heavy sack slung over his shoulder hetosses seeds. RANON Dada! We found something in the river!Willow beams with joy as his son and daughter race to-ward him. They grab his sleeves and tug him away fromhis plow. WILLOW I can't run off and play with you now. I've got work to do. RANON/MIMS But Dada, you gotta see it! Hurry!Willow drops his sack of seeds. The ugly hog glares athim like a guilty conscience. The children squeal withexcitement as their father runs toward the river withthem.EXT. RIVERBANK - DAYWE SEE Willow from the baby's view. His eyes pop open.He quickly backs his children away. WILLOW Back! Don't go near it. We don't know where it's been. It could be diseased. MIMS It's a baby! RANON It's not a Nelwyn baby. WILLOW No, it's too big to be a Nelwyn baby. It looks like a daikini... MIMS Ooh, it's so cute... WILLOW Mims! Get back here! It might bite you.Willow drags Mims away. Then the baby starts crying. RANON Can't we keep it, Dada? WILLOW Absolutely not. BURGLEKUTT Ufgood! Willow Ufgood!Willow, in a sudden panic, sees BURGLEKUTT in the dis-tance. He splashes into the river, grabs the raft,plunks it on the bank and tries to hush the cryingbaby. WILLOW Shhh, shhh! It's the Prefect -- that's all I need. Mims, Ranon, keep this thing hidden...EXT. UFGOOD FARM - DAYBurglekutt's beady eyes spot Willow making a mad dashfor his plow. Swinging his fat stomach, he angrilypoints his walking stick and goes after him. KIAYA Mr. Burglekutt! He hasn't done anything wrong!Willow's wife KIAYA chases Burglekutt across the field,her beautiful long hair flowing behind her. Willowquickly gets behind his plow like he's been there allday. BURGLEKUTT Ufgood! What do you think you're doing! I tell the planting seeds in this village. KIAYA I told him we didn't steal it, Wil- low.Burglekutt furiously scoops a handful of seeds out ofWillow's sack and shakes them under Willow's nose. BURGLEKUTT You haven't paid your debts. Where did you get these seeds?With pride, Willow puts his arm around his wife. WILLOW In the forest. My family's been gathering them since last fall. There's no law against that, Bur- glekutt.Suddenly the children laugh in the distance. KIAYA Willow! You left the children alone by the river??In alarm she runs off before Willow can stop her. Bur-glekutt sweeps the horizon with his walking stick. BURGLEKUTT Too late, Ufgood. You'll never get your planting done before the rains start. You're gonna lose this land.He raises the seeds high above his head, then smashesthem down at Willow's boots. He waddles away towardtwo of his MEN who wait by the road. Then: KiayaSHRIEKS from the river. Burglekutt stops in his tracksand shakes his head as if to say "the whole family'scrazy." Off he trudges. Willow watches and waits.Then runs as fast as he can to the river.EXT. RIVER - DAYKiaya cradles the baby in her arms. Willow runs up,and with patriarchal authority, puts his fists on hiships. WILLOW Absolutely, under no condition, is anyone in this family going to fall in love with that baby.They all fall in love as he speaks. The children fol-low Kiaya up on the bank, walking right past Willow. WILLOW Kiaya! We can't keep that baby. Mims, Ranon. Hey! I will not be ignored!Ignored, Willow huffs after them across his unplowedfield.INT. UFGOOD HOUSE - DAYWillow nervously paces as Kiaya pours water in a woodtub and the children entertain the naked baby withsticks and brightly colored cloths, apparatus for amagic trick. WILLOW This is bad. If we're caught with that little daikini it'll be the end of us. Careful, Ranon, I need that for the festival. (indicates magic cloth) Kiaya, what are we going to do? KIAYA We're gonna give this baby a bath.The baby squeals with joy as Kiaya lifts her into thebath. WILLOW Burglekutt's right. There's not enough time to finish plowing. We'll lose everything and I'll end up working in the mines.He shudders at the thought. KIAYA Willow, do you think we should take her to the Village Council? WILLOW No, no! They'll think it's a bad omen. There'll be a flood or a drought or a plague and everybody'll blame me for it! RANON Look. What's that?Willow leans forward. On the baby's shoulder is asmall branded scar in a circular design. It only addsto Willow's fears. WILLOW I don't know. This is trouble. I'll talk to the High Aldwin about it tomorrow at the Festival.The baby kicks and splashes and giggles in the bath.EXT. NELWYN VILLAGE - DAYThe raucous BAND plays as NELWYNS dance and celebrateamid brochs and wheelhouses garlanded with flowers. Acrowd cheers wildly as MINERS battle FARMERS in a tug-of-war, finally yanking the farmers face-first into apuddle of mud. On a stage a HARLEQUIN dances delight-fully. While on a raised platform the five members ofthe VILLAGE COUNCIL sit and observe, mildly amused.The head councilman is Burglekutt.The WE SEE Willow on another stage. He flourishes hiscolorful sticks and cloths. In the audience WE NOTICEhis friend MEEGOSH, who wears a miner's apron, rootingWillow on. WILLOW And now! For our final amazing bit of magic, I will make an entire pig completely disappear!Meegosh applauds as Mims and Ranon trot out lugging atiny baby pig in a crate. As Willow takes the pig outit bites his hand and gets away. Willow tackles andsquashes it. The crowd laughs and half of them leave,and Meegosh covers his face.Mims and Ranon rapidly wave a bright blanket. Willowcleverly whips the pig under his legs and behind hisback and suddenly it's gone! Impresse, the crowdgasps. Then the pig squeals and dashes throughWillow's legs and leaps off the stage. CROWD Aaww! Booo! Sssss!Burglekutt and the Council shake their heads as Willow,embarassed, picks up his things. Meegosh trots upwith the pig under his arm. WILLOW Meegosh, I'm in trouble. MEEGOSH Hey, it wasn't that bad. You need a better pig, that's all.But as they walk past the Village Council, and Bur-glekutt sneers down at Willow, Meegosh catches on. MEEGOSH Now Burglekutt's got you in the squeeze. Soon you'll be down in the mines like me. WILLOW Mining. I hate closed-in spaces. That's the last thing I'd ever do. (he shudders) I gotta get my crop planted. MEEGOSH You know I'll help you as much as I can, Willow.The Village Council members stand up respectfully asthe wise old HIGH ALDWIN hobbles through the adoringcrowd. Mims and Ranon rush up to Willow with severalother children who are eating candy. MIMS Dada, can we get treacle candy? Can we, can we? Please? WILLOW (preoccupied) Meegosh, can you watch the chil- dren? I gotta talk to the High Aldwin. MEEGOSH (truly amazed) The High Aldwin?? Why?But Willow has already wandered into the crowd, leavingMeegosh with a dozen sugar-charged children and a pig.Willow desperately pushes past people and finallyreaches the High Aldwin. WILLOW Sir! I have to talk to you. HIGH ALDWIN Not today, Willow. WILLOW It's a matter of great importance to me!Burglekutt stares angrily from his platform. Slightlyannoyed, the High Aldwin stops and places his hand onWillow's shoulder. HIGH ALDWIN Intuition, Willow -- remember? I know you're eager to be my appren- tice, Willow. But today is the spring festival.Suddenly a walking stick is pointed at Willow's nose. BURGLEKUTT Apprentice? To the High Aldwin!! Willow Ufgood???His belly shakes as he howls with laughter, encouraginghis councilmen to join in. Willow shrinks away, em-barassed.Then a terrified SHRIEK shatters the festivity. Music stops and people grab their children and run for theirlives. A DEATH DOG rips a trail of destruction throughthe village.Meegosh holds onto Ranon and Mims. But when Mims seesWillow she runs right out into the open. Willowcharges twoard her, tackling her and rolling away fromthe beast's claws. DEATH DOG Bordak! Bordak!A loud war cry distracts the dog. VOHNKAR, thetoughest warrior in the village, leads a charging armyof miners and farmers wielding shovels and picks. Wil-low and Meegosh grab sticks. The Nelwyns battle theDeath Dog. At last, Vohnkar drives a spear through itschest and it dies hideously. MEEGOSH What was it looking for? A VILLAGER It said "bordak"! What does it mean? COUNCILMAN (scholarly) Baby! It means baby! It was look- ing for somebody's baby!Mothers grab their children, people look around thewrecked village in terror. There's a haunting silence. MIMS Mommy?Suddenly alarmed, Willow races towrd his distant farm,his children hurrying behind. WILLOW Kiaya! Kiaya!INT. UFGOOD HOUSE - DAYWillow bursts in and finds Kiaya calmly feeding thebaby. Relieved, he throws his arms around her. WILLOW We can't keep this baby, Kiaya. We must take her to the Council.The children run in and they all huddle together, cher-ishing their precious lives.INT. COUNCIL BUILDING - DAYArguing villagers pack the church-shaped room to theopen door at the back and into the balconies above.The councilmen sit on a platform at the front, with theHigh Aldwin seated in a special chair above them. Tak-ing charge, Burglekutt stands and pounds the floor withhis walking stick. BURGLEKUTT An evil beast from the outer world has invaded our peaceful village, looking for a baby!This only adds to the frenzy. A VILLAGER It's a sign! An omen! ANOTHER VILLAGER Our crops will die! BURGLEKUTT Silence! One beast we can kill. But there may be more! And they won't give up their search till they've found what they're looking for! MEEGOSH Whose baby is it! OTHER VILLAGERS Who's to blame for this!Amid the chaos the High Aldwin slowly stands up. As ifhe senses something, he looks over the crowd toward theback.At the back door, holding the baby, Willow tries topush his way through the jostling crowd. The HighAldwin raises his hand. It flashes magically. Hepoints as he speaks: HIGH ALDWIN Willow Ufgood! Come before me!The crowd stands apart as Willow walks the length ofthe room. Kiaya and the children follow part way andthen stand aside next to Meegosh. Burglekutt simmersas Willow approaches the platform. HIGH ALDWIN Earlier today you tried to tell me something, Willow. WILLOW (bows his head) My family found this baby in the river, High Aldwin.The crowd stirs but the High Aldwin silences them witha simple gesture. He gazes down at the baby mysteri-ously. HIGH ALDWIN A daikini child... (his eyes close) ...of some importance, I feel... BURGLEKUTT That's what the beasts want! Give it back!The crowd rumbles, many agree. WILLOW They'll kill her! We can't let this baby die! BURGLEKUTT What do we care!Burglekutt whips up the shouting crowd. The HighAldwin raises his hands, feeling the air above him.Almost in a trance: HIGH ALDWIN ...importance...yes...this child is special... COUNCILMAN What should we do?Instantly, the High Aldwin drops his arms and opens hiseyes. HIGH ALDWIN This child must be taken beyond the boundaries of our village. All the way to the daikini crossroads.The room goes silent. A VILLAGER Who will do that? SEVERAL VILLAGERS Vohnkar! Vohnkar!Vohnkar the warrior elbows his way to the front andpounds his chest once with his fist. HIGH ALDWIN The outer world is dangerous and corrupt, Vohnkar. And this baby is hunted by blood-hungry beasts. Are you willing to sacrifice your life?Brave Vohnkar swallows and shifts his weight doubtful-ly. VOHNKAR If I go, who'll defend you if other beasts attack?The crowd rumbles and shouts, and Vohnkar mops his browand scuttles away from the platform. BURGLEKUTT He's right! It seems only fair that the man to take this baby to the crossroads... (walking stick up) ...be the very man who plucked it... (walking stick down) ...out of the river!All eyes turn to Willow. Kiaya gasps and Meegosh holdsher back. WILLOW I can't do it! I haven't put my crop in! A COUNCILMAN You caused this trouble. You found the baby...you get rid of it! BURGLEKUTT I nominate Willow Ufgood!The crowd cheers wildly. The High Aldwin steps forwardto the edge of the platform. With a flourish he waveshis arms. HIGH ALDWIN I will consult the bones!Something rattles as he shakes his cupped hands. Thecrowd jumps away. The High Aldwin scatters small bonesacross the floor below him. He leans down and studiesthe bones. Willow looks at Kiaya, who is worried andafraid. The High Aldwin speaks softly to him: HIGH ALDWIN The bones tell me nothing. (he eyes Willow) But I must make a decision. Is there love in your heart for this child?Willow hesitates. He looks at the baby. WILLOW Yes.The High Aldwin bolts straight up, broadcasting: HIGH ALDWIN The bones have spoken! Willow? The security of this village depends on you!The people shout and cheer and applaud and begin toleave. Kiaya and Meegosh and the children push theirway toward Willow, who stands there staring at thebaby.INT. UFGOOD HOUSE - NIGHTKiaya's hair hangs down her back in a long tight braid.Near the fire she packs supplies into a travel sack.On the other side of the fire, Willow diapers the baby.The house is quiet. MIMS Dada?Willow sets the baby down. He goes around an opne wallan sits on his daughter's bed, straightening her blank-ets and toys. MIMS Watch out for brownies, Dada. WILLOW I will, Mims. Goodnight.He smiles and kisses her. Then crosses over to Ranon's bed. RANON Dada, what's a daikini? WILLOW Daikinis are giant people who live far far away. RANON Are you scared?Willow shrugs. Ranon sits up in bed. RANON I could be you rguard! I could carry your spear! WILLOW (smiles) What a great son you are, Ranon. I wish I could take you with me. Now go to sleep...Ranon slides down under his blankets. Willow kisseshim, looks at him a moment, then quietly withdraws to-ward the fire.EXT. SACRED HILL - SUNRISEThe silhouette of a distant hill with druid stones ontop.Carrying the baby, Willow climbs the hill with his fami-ly. He wears a papoose rig, supply pack, and a dagger.He hands the baby to Kiaya, then walks through thetowering stones. The High Aldwin solemnly looks out atthe distant forest. HIGH ALDWIN Now, you know where you're going? (Willow shakes his head) Down there, through those trees, follow the river. You'll know the crossroads by a big daikini struc- ture. Willow, this is serious business. Don't waste any time, the outer world is no place for a Nelwyn. Give the baby to the first daikini you see, then hurry home as fast as you can. WILLOW If I'm not strong enough to be your apprentice, how can I do this? HIGH ALDWIN You're strong enough. But you're going to need courage, Willow. WILLOW I don't want courage. I don't want to be a warrior. All I've ever wanted was to do magic, real magic, like you! HIGH ALDWIN Real magic, Willow, is simply the art of controlling the reality of others. You lack faith in your- self. You must learn to trust your intuition.The High Aldwin picks up a rock. With intense concen-tration he squeezes it in his outstretched hand. Thenthrows it in the air. It changes into a bird and fliesaway. HIGH ALDWIN Go in the direction the bird is flying. WILLOW (amazed) Oh, if I could do that I'd--I'd turn Burglekutt into a toad! HIGH ALDWIN Waste magic on revenge? You have much to learn, Willow...The High Aldwin touches Willow's shoulder and turnsaway. The children are playing tag among the stones.Willow hugs them. Kiaya places the baby in the papoose. KIAYA Willow, we've never been apart. I miss you already. Take this. It will bring you luck.Kiaya, whose head is covered with a kerchief, places abraided necklace on her own hair around Willow's neck. WILLOW You cut your hair, Kiaya?He kisses her. The adjusts the papoose and heads offdown the hill. The others wave goodbye sadly. KIAYA Willow!!Kiaya rushes down the hill and passionately throws herarms around Willow, tears in her eyes. At last theybreak apart, and Willow begins the journey.EXT. WOODS - DAY - MONTAGEWillow hikes through strange and wondrous terrain,amazed and frightened. Animals rustle in the brush andhe stumbles into a thistle patch, jumping out pickingburrs off his legs. He hides from a fierce bear. Thebear sees him and runs away. Willow hurries along,shifting the papoose, getting used to the baby'sweight.EXT. ROAD - EVENINGThe baby is fussing hungrily. Willow impetuously digsa bladder of goat's milk from his sack and struggles tofeed her. Then he hears something. Sensing danger, heclutches the baby and runs down a nearby riverbank. Hehides under a bridge.NOCKMAAR SOLDIERS on horseback thunder toward thebridge, led by the knight SORSHA whose face is hiddenunder a black helmet and visor. In the other directionWillow sees a LIEUTENANT and two DEATH DOGS. They allmeet on the bridge. The hideous soldiers are part hu-man, part beast. LIEUTENANT We've patrolled the hills. This is where they killed the nursemaid. SORSHA She must have done something with the child. Widen the search!One of the Death Dogs is chewing on the Lieutenant'sstirrup. LIEUTENANT Get away from there!The dog panics and gnashes at the Lieutenant's arm,ripping away a piece of armor with its teeth. Horsesrear. The Lieutenant draws his sword lightning-fast.He slices and kills the Death Dog. The baby begins tocry but the death-howl of the beast drowns her out asit does hurtling off the bridge into the river below.The soldiers gallop off into the woods.Willow falls back against the riverbank, shrinking awayfrom the murdered Death Dog which lies bloody andtwisted in the water. The terrified baby cries in hisarms.EXT. ROAD - MORNINGA harmless rabbit springs across Willow's path. Willowtrips over a stone and almost falls flat on his face. WILLOW I hate this. Where am I? I should stick you in a tree and go back home. (looks at baby) I'm sorry. I didn't mean that.He hurries along the road, looking over his shoulder.EXT. LANDSCAPE - DAY - MONTAGEVarious VIEWS of Willow and the baby trekking acrossvast hills and valleys.EXT. HILL - DAYGasping with exhaustion, Willow staggers up a slopinghill and drops to his knees. His eyes brighten. Inthe distance he sees a junction marked by a high woodenscaffolding. WILLOW That's it. The crossroads...He stands and heads toward it cautiously.EXT. CROSSROADS - DAYThe place is disgusting. Littered with junk, buzzingwith flies, plagued with rodents. Willow creeps towardthe scaffolding, covering his face against the stench.From it hang two cages. In one is a heap of filthyrags. In the other a half-clothed skeleton with onebony arm dangling out.Willow unpacks the papoose and looks up the desertedroad. He shivers with cold. WILLOW I hate this.EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY - LATERWillow waits uneasily, brushing flies off his face.The baby fusses and squirms. He peeks inside herdiaper. WILLOW I hate this.He looks anxiously up and down the road. The baby'scrying gets worse. He begins to change her.EXT. CROSSROADS - SUNSETWillow finishes building a fire, lighting it with flintand blowing it into flame. The baby lies quietly near-by in a kind fo porta-crib made of papoose and twigs.Nightfall teems with spooky noises: crickets, frogs,bats, owls and howling wolves. Then a terrible moanfrightens him. WILLOW I really hate this.Not sure where it came from. he backs away from thefire, under the rag-filled cage. Suddenly a handreaches down and yanks Willow up off the ground! Wil-low screams. The baby cries. And WE SEE the haggardunwashed unshaven face of MADMARTIGAN pressing againstthe bars of the cage. MADMARTIGAN Hey, Peck...get me some water...or you'll diiiiie...!Madmartigan shakes Willow like a rag-doll until Willownods his head yes. Then drops him. Instantly Willowraces around that fire, picking up everything he owns. WILLOW I will--I'll getcha water--getcha lotsa water--anything you say--!Willow grabs the baby and makes a beeline for thebushes. MADMARTIGAN Peck!He dives headfirst into the weeds. Madmartigan rattleshis cage. MADMARTIGAN You're a weasely little Peck! Gimme some water!Willow peeks at him and shakes his head. WILLOW I'm not coming near you!They stare at each other across the fire. Then, Mad-martigan puts on a very phony smile. MADMARTIGAN Please? I'm dyin' of thirst in here. WILLOW Good. How long will it take?Madmartigan drops the smile and spits at the fire. MADMARTIGAN Don't make me angry, Peck. WILLOW You be careful. I'm a powerful sorcerer. I could turn you into a toad just like that. MADMARTIGAN Miserable Pecks.Willow throws a rock at him. It bounces off the cage.Madmartigan sags down into a heap of rags again.EXT. CROSSROADs - NIGHTThe wind howls through the distant trees as darkness falls.Willow rocks the baby and eats some bread. Madmartiganwatches him hungrily, sighing, forlorn, his eyes askingfor pit. Willow glances at him. Finally, he can'ttake any more and he puts down the baby and pous somegoat's milk in a cup. He reaches up on tip-toes andoffers the milk to Madmartigan. MADMARTIGAN That's more like it.Madmartigan snatches the cup and guzzles the milk,retching horribly at the taste. Then he tosses the cupback. WILLOW Do any other daikinis ever come by here? MADMARTIGAN Why. WILLOW I have to give this baby to some- body.Madmartigan grabs the bars and raises himself up. MADMARTIGAN I'm somebody. Lemme out and I'll take care of your baby.He makes little kissing noises to the baby, trying tobe sweet. However, his teeth are filthy. WILLOW No. Somebdoy put you in there for a reason. I'll wait for somebody else.Willow retreats to the fire. Madmartigan whacks thecage with the back of his hand.EXT. CROSSROADS - NIGHT- LATERBy the blazing fire Willow feeds the baby. WE HEARhoofbeats. WILLOW Hey! Somebody's coming! MADMARTIGAN Peck! Quick! Douse the fire!Excited, Willow tosses more wood on the fire, picks upthe baby and waits. MADMARTIGAN No, you fool! Put it out I say! Out!Torches appear up the road. A horse-drawn wagonclatters full-speed toward the fire. WE HEAR loaddrunken voices, far from friendly. Willow quicklydives into the bushes.Four boorish PICTS, with tatooed faces and arms, haltat the crossroads, yelling and waving their torches.Madmartigan is hidden under his rags. For fun thePicts set fire to the skeleton cage. Then head for theother. MADMARTIGAN No!!He rises up in the torchlight. The Picts taunt him. PICT Whose fire!They jab their torches at Madmartigan. MADMARTIGAN No! Help! Stop! PICT Where are they? Where did they go?Madmartigan points way up the road. The Picts rideaway. As they go, they swing his cage and st fire tothe floor of it. Madmartigan frantically geats theflames. His sleeves ignite.Willow scrambles out of the bushes and scoops up hand-fuls of dirt, which he chucks at Madmartigan. MADMARTIGAN (spitting out dirt) Thanks for your help, Peck. WILLOW Are you okay? MADMARTIGAN As if you care. I saved your life, Peck. Those guys woulda killed us! (points dramatically) You wanna give your baby to them?? They eat babies! WILLOW I don't know.Madmartigan literally licks his wounds, dragging hisparched tongue along the length of his forearm. Willowbegins to walk away. MADMARTIGAN The world's gone insane. Good men locked in cages, criminals running free. It doesn't pay to be honest, Peck.Willow stops and turns around. WILLOW Don't call me a Peck. My name is Willow.Madmartigan slinks down like a cat and slowly extendshis derty hand through the bars. MADMARTIGAN Hello, Willow. I'm Madmartigan.Willow stares warily at the hand. Madmartigan smiles.Willow quickly shakes his hand and jumps away. Madmar-tigan laughs in a harmless, friendly way. MADMARTIGAN You a woodcutter? WILLOW Farmer. MADMARTIGAN Farmer! I knew it! You're a vic- tim, Willow. Yep, you and me: victims of a rotten, corrupt, cor- rupt, rotten world.A rat lumbers out of the darkness and sniffs toward thebaby in the porta-crib. Madmartigan suddenly points.Willow screams and chases the rat away. Madmartiganshakes his head as solemnly as an undertaker. MADMARTIGAN Listen, Willow my friend. I'm really a good man. Give me my freedom, and I'll look after that baby for you. Trust me.After a moment, Willow takes out his dagger. He standson his toes under a cage, reaches up, and hacks at thechain lock. Madmartigan's eyes widen over-eagerly. herubs his hands together and licks his lips. MADMARTIGAN That's it--good--good--like that, yes, good, good, the chain--that's it, come on--come on--!Willow suddenly steps away. WILLOW Nooo, I don't think I should.Madmartigan goes berserk. His arms flail and the wholecage shakes and swings and he bangs his head on theroof. MADMARTIGAN Peck!! Stupid Peck! I'll kill ya! Let me out!Willow scrambles back to the fire and scoops up thebaby and rocks her in his arms.EXT. CROSSROADS - DAWNMadmartigan is making something out of scraps of barkand cloth. He smiles sweetly as Willow wakes up. MADMARTIGAN Morning, Willow.Willow turns his back on him and tends to the baby. MADMARTIGAN Sorry I yelled at you. I've been in this cage toooo long. Can't think straight anymore. Owww...!Willow looks over. madmartigan pats his arms in pain. WILLOW You all right? MADMARTIGAN These burns. My arms. Ouch...He holds up his arms in agony. Willow fishes somegooey jelly out of his sack and smears a gob of it on aleaf. He hands it up to Madmartigan. WILLOW See if this helps.Madmartigan wipes the goo all over his arms. MADMARTIGAN Aaaaaahhhh. Better. Here, I made something for the baby.He holds out a ratlle and shakes it. Willow acceptsit. WILLOW What's inside?Madmartigan sticks his finger in his mouth and pries itopen as wide as possible. MADMARTIGAN A tooth. (Willow reacts) I'm strving. I got no used for it.Noise in the distance. up the road Willow sees aMESSENGER charging on horseback. He gallops rightpast, whipping his horse, almost knocking Willow offthe road. Then another MESSENGER follows with the sameurgency. Willow grabs the baby and steps out to stophim. WILLOW Stop! Wait!The messenger screams a Willow who jumps aside as hethunders by. The two horsemen disappear up the road. MADMARTIGAN (with authority) Smells like a battle. WILLOW Are you a warrior? MADMARTIGAN The greatest swordsman that ever lived.Madmartigan slices the air with an imaginary sword.Willow shakes his head and goes back to the baby.EXT. CROSSROADS - DAYWE SEE the empty road. Willow's head pops INTO FRAME.He grabs the baby. WILLOW What's that? I hear something! MADMARTIGAN You hear trouble. WILLOW What is it?The horizon rumbles. Madmartigan cups his ear. Cyni-cally: MADMARTIGAN A hundred horses...five or six wagons... and about six thousand fools.Two CAVALRY OFFICERS gallop into view, raising a plumeof dust. Then an enormous ARMY appears: cavalry, footsoldiers, assault wagons: shields, swords, spears,raised banners.The two officers shout orders over the thunderousclamor of hoofbeats, marching boots and clanking armor.Charging back and forth, they shepherd the army throughthe crossroads. Willow holds the baby. Fighting dustand noise he tries to get the officer's attention. WILLOW Sir? Sir! OFFICER Out of the way!An officer's horse nearly kicks Willow, who scurriesout of the way. Huddling with the baby, he noticesAIRK THAUGHBAER, a large, muscular, bearded officer,clearly in charge. On horseback, Airk breaks file andrides up to the other officers. AIRK Push 'em harder! No rest at mid- day! We need to make ten more leagues by dark!Shouting orders, the officers split up, charging to thefront and rear of the army. Airk watches the armypass. Willow desperately scrambles up to him. WILLOW Sir! Sir! I have this baby. We found her in our village. Will you take her...?Huge Airk looks down from his huge horse. Little Wil-low holds up the baby. AIRK We're going into battle, little one. Find a woman to take care of it. MADMARTIGAN He thought you were a woman, Airk!Airk snaps hes head around and his eyes flash. AIRK Madmartigan! What did you do this time? MADMARTIGAN Nothing you wouldn't have done it my place!Airk's horse prances menacingly around Madmartigan'scage. AIRK I always knew you'd end up in a crow's cage. MADMARTIGAN Least I'm not down there herding sheep!Airk laughs sourly and rocks the cage. AIRK You're lucky somebody got to you first, Madmartigan! I'd've killed you myself after that stunt at Land's End!He swings that cage and starts to ride away. MADMARTIGAN Airk! Come on, Airk. Lemme outa here. AIRK (really sarcastic) Hey, remember? You don't need my help, Madmartigan. Little rabbit trap like this? Come on! I could open it for you, but I wouldn't wanna insult you! MADMARTIGAN Gimme a sword, Airk. I'll win your war for you.Airk quickly drops the banter and glares at Madmartigan seri-ously. AIRK You're nothing but trouble, Madmar- tigan. And I got plenty of that. Stay in your coffin and rot!Airk spurs his horse and smashes the cage as he chargesoff. MADMARTIGAN I'll be around long after you're dead, Airk! You slime! When I get outa here I'll cut your head off and stick it on a pig-pole! WILLOW Friend of yours?Madmartigan snarls down at Willow as the army continuesto march by. But then he quickly gets cute again. MADMARTIGAN Hello, little baby...EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY - LATERA ghostly wind hants the barren crossroads. The roadis pocked with hoofprints and wagon tracks. Willowshakes his head at the ashes of his dead fire. MADMARTIGAN Whatcha thinkin' about, Willow? WILLOW I hate this.Madmartigan squeezes his face between the bars of hiscage. MADMARTIGAN Nobody's gonna take your baby. Know why? Nobody cares... (beat) Except me. (wistfully) You wanna go back to your farm. You wanna go back to your family. I could take care of that baby. I'll look after her like she was me own. WILLOW You don't know anything about ba- bies.Madmartigan kneels and straightens up and points up hisfinger astutely. MADMARTIGAN Ahhh! But I know a lot of women who do. Why, if I had somebody in my life--a little daughter for instance--I'd have a reason to live...He clsps his hands together outside the bars, plead-ing: MADMARTIGAN Willow. You can't let me die here. Not when I wanna help you.Willow looks at the baby in the porta-crib. Then looksup the empty road. Then looks hard at Madmartigan. WILLOW You gotta promise to feed her. MADMARTIGAN I will. WILLOW Fresh goat's milk. MADMARTIGAN Absolutely!Willow draws his dagger and begins to hack at thechain. WILLOW And give her a bath everyday, and don't let her get cold. And keep her diaper changed. MADMARTIGAN Of course! I promise!Willow hacks and pries at the chain until it breaksopen. The bottom of the cage falls out, dumping Mad-martigan into a heap of rags and dust. MADMARTIGAN Come to Daddy, little darlin'. (picks her up) I think she likes me!Kneeling on the ground, he plays with the baby. Willowquickly hitches the papoose to Madmartigan's back andhands him supplies. WILLOW Here are her diaper rags. And this is her milk bladder. And when she cries--she's either hungry or she's tired--rock her on your left shoulder. She likes that. MADMARTIGAN Don't worry, Willow. She's in good hands. You haven't made a mistake.Willow takes the baby and kisses her. WILLOW Bye.He puts her in the papoose. WILLOW (to Madmartigan) Please take good care of her.Madmartigan stands up. He towers above Willow. Hepats Willow on the head. MADMARTIGAN You've done a great job. Now you go back to your family and get your crop in.Madmartigan smiles, turns, and marches off down theroad. Willow sighs with relief, his task accomplished.He watches Madmartigan and the baby disappear over ahill.EXT. ROAD - DAYSwinging his arms and whistling a tune, Willow strutsproudly up a gentle hill. WILLOW Look, it's Willow Ufgood! He's come home! Welcome back, Willow! He deserves a medal: he's quite mystical. For honor, for bravery, for his intuitive powers... (he chuckles) ...let's make him Apprentice Aldwin. Better still: High Aldwin! Make way! It's Willow Uf- good, High Aldwin of---The baby cries! Willow spins around. Flying towrdhim is an incredible VULTURE with enormous winds. Inits claws it carries the baby, papoose and all. Itswoops straight at Willow, buzzing him, and Willow hitsthe dirt. He looks up. To add to the wonder: ridingthe vulutre is an ELF. WILLOW Come back here, you! That's my baby!!The vulture zooms off into the tall majestic trees ofthe forest, with the baby crying. Shouting and wavingmadly, Willow gallops after it.EXT. THROUGH THE FOREST - DAYWillow tears after the vulture which vanishes in thetowering trees. As the path narrows, something whis-tlse past his ear. Finger-length arrows rain down onhim from every direction, peppering the surroundingtrees. Some even hit Willow. He plucks them out as heraces along.He comes to a fork in the path: Decision! He startsdown one way, then slams on the brakes. He sees ropesand nets. WILLOW Oh no, it's a trap!He hurries back to the fork and takes the safer route-- WILLOW Oh noooooo!!--and gets swallowed by a deadly pit.INT. ELFIN THRONE ROOM - UNDERGROUNDWillow wakes up as a pail of water hits him in theface. His feet and wrists are being bound. Severallittle ELVES are gawking and laughing at him. Theywear samurai-type outfits and angry little haircuts. WILLOW (focusing) Where am I? Where's the baby?FRANJEAN, the Elfin king, struts forward arrogantly.He speaks a haughty, nasal accent resembling French: FRANJEAN I am Franjean, king of the world.Willow struggles against the ropes that bind him. WILLOW That baby's my responsibility!Outraged, Franjean smacks Willow's nose with theback of his hand. FRANJEAN I don't care. We paid for her. Go back to sleep, monsieur...As he leaves, Franjean nods to an intense-looking ARCH-ER elf heavily armed with arrows and a spear. Thearcher dips his spear in a bowl of purple liquid. Hepricks Willow's arm. WILLOW Yeow! (he loses consciousness) Madmartigan...I never should've trusted you...FADE TO BLACKINT. ELFIN THRONE ROOM - DAWNWillow's eyes open. A wild little face is looking athim. A wild little person is standing on his chest. TEEMO Tongue.Too groggy to argue, Willow sticks out his tongue.TEEMO the brownie crushes a brittle leaf and tosses thedust into Willow's mouth. Smacking his lips, Willowcomes around. He sees, down between his legs, anotherbrownie named ROOL cutting the ropes. WILLOW Who are you? ROOL Quiet, you fool! TEEMO (formal) We are emissaries of her majesty, Queen Cherlindrea, of the land of Coshairm. WILLOW Queen Cherlindrea? TEEMO She requests the presence of your- self and the young princess. WILLOW Who?? TEEMO You're the guardian, aren't you? ROOL Quit yakking, Teemo. We gotta get outa here!Willow rolls onto his knees, stands up and bumps hishead on the ceiling. The fuzzy-headed brownies creakopen the door and becon Willow to follow. He squeezesthrough.INT. ELFIN HALLWAY - UNDERGROUNDLike a rabbit warren, compartments branch off the maintunnel. Willow scrunches along behind the tip-toeingbrownies. They hear the baby crying. They peekthrough the door.Inside a cluttered room they see thebaby crying miser-ably. Her tears are being carried to a high level intiny buckets on a mechanized wheel, operated by FOURELVES. TEEMO Elves! They're always tormenting babies. They make them cry and take their tears. ROOL Somebody has to do it. WILLOW Why?? ROOL How else they gonna make dew drops?The baby shrieks. WILLOW I'm getting her out of there! TEEMO No! You let us handle this. Come along, Rool!Teemo ridiculously pushes Willow away from the door.With a macho swagger he adjusts his dagger belt, and heand Rool open the door.INT. ELFIN TEAR FACTORYThey enter like gunslingers in a saloon. The fourelves, who are twice their size, turn and face them.Teemo draws his small dagger. With confidence hesmiles at Rool. TEEMO Watch this. Right between the eyes. ROOL (to the elves) He never misses.Artfully Teemo poises the dagger above his head. Withall his might he throws. His dagger flip-flops throughthe air and lands at the elves' feet, plink-plunk. TEEMO Ooops. Was that right? That wasn't right.Suddenly the entire wall implodes. The elves screamand panic as Willow comes crashing in like King Kong.He grabs the crying baby and tucks her under his arm.EXT. ELF HOLE - DAYThe brownies scamper out of a hole in the ground wherethe elves keep their vultures corralled. ROOL/TEEMO Hyah! Hyah! Git!They untie th evulture and send them flapping away inthe forest as Willow wiggles out of the elf hole withthe baby. They run for their lives.EXT. FOREST - CHASE - DAYRool and teemo tear along at incredible speed, Willowbarely keeping up with them. Little elf arrows showerthe forest as the angry elves chase after them, whoop-ing and screaming.EXT. DEEP GORGE - DAYThey skid up to a perilously deep drop into oblivion.The elves are shrieking toward them. The only chanceof excape is a huge fallen tree spanning the gorge.The brownies scamper out. Willow looks down and reelswith vertigo. WILLOW I can't go out there with the baby! ROOL/TEEMO (frantically point) Elves!!The elf army pours out of the forest. Willow holds hisbreath and ventures out onto the topmost branches ofthe tree. Arrows zing around him as he wobbles like adrunken tightrope walker toward the middle. The brown-ies wait for him. WILLOW Ohhh, I hate this. TEEMO Take your time. Don't worry about the elves. They won't come out here. WILLOW Why not? ROOL Because of the trolls. WILLOW Trolls?The brownies console Willow with unworried laughter. TEEMO Relax. They only come out at night.An ugly TROLL snarls up behind Willow. They all screamand race for the other side. Another TROLL pops up tomeet them. The trolls slink along like possums. Thebrownies dive through a hole in the hollow tree trunk.The elves, meanwhile, flint-start a fire at their endof the tree. One troll claws at the brownies insidethe trunk while the other chases Willow across ganglingbranches. Then the baby falls out of the papoose! Shetumbles and catches on a low branch and Willow racesthe troll and grabs her just before she plummets intothe gorge.One troll catches Rool but can't then get his claw outof the trunk. The brownies finally excape. The treeburns and breaks, dangling over the gorge by its roots.A troll howls as he falls to his death. The otherscrambles up the tree and grabs Willow's foot.Willow's boot slips off and down goes the second troll.Flames lick at Willow as he at last hauls himself tosafety, just as the roots snap and the blazing treegoes crashing down in the gorge. WILLOW This is not going well. TEEMO Hurry! Queen Cherlindrea will know what to do.Willow bundles the baby and follows the brownies intothe forest. Hobbling slightly on his bootless foot.EXT. MAJESTIC FOREST - SUNSETFading sunlight bleeds through awesomely beautifultrees as Willow and the brownies trek into the magicalFairy Kingdom. Elora Danan falls into a peacefulsleep.EXT. FAIRY KINGDOM - NIGHTWillow comes to a halt. His mouth drops open. Theforest is a luminous Milky Way of dancing, flyingFAIRIES, like fireflies. The brownies tug at hispant-legs and whisper. TEEMO Come on. This is a privilege. No- body ever gets called before Her Majesty.Wonder-struck, Willow walks into a clearing wherecolorful night-flowers bloom. He lowers himself ontoan enormous toadstool, testing it with his hand. OtherBROWNIES stand watching, like courtiers. The tinyfairies fly up to Willow's face and giggle: they looklike five-year-old girls, full of mischief and fun.Suddenly a strange LIGHT begins to throb behind thetrees, peircing the forest with helter-skelter beams.Willow throws up his arms as the bright light stingshis eyes. ROOL Stand up! It's the queen!CHERLINDREA, the Fairy Queen, materializes out of frag-ments of moving light, diaphanous, sylph-like, beauti-ful. CHERLINDREA Willow Ufgood. WILLOW (blinded) Yes...? CHERLINDREA I hope you are comfortable here, inside my kingdom...Willow says nothing, still batling the bright light. TEEMO Talk! Say something! WILLOW I can't see anything--she's too bright! CHERLINDREA I'm sorry...The light diminishes, enabling Willow to see the queen.She is a beautiful vision, with flowing hair and lumi-nous eyes. Her magical presence both stuns andimpresses Willow. She turns to the brownies. CHERLINDREA Broke-heart of nightingale for our honored guest.All the courtier brownies snap to attention and go intoaction, bustling about, going to work, some even trip-ping over one another. They bring Willow a drink in adelicate cup-shaped leaf, and he takes a sip.The queen dissolves and reappears near Willow. She le-ans down and opens the baby's swaddling and looks atthe mark on the baby's arm. CHERLINDREA It is Elora Danan! The prophecy has come true.The tiny fairies and the brownies stop work and sighwith respect and amazement. Cherlindrea seems to levi-tate the baby out of Willow's arms, floating her magi-cally onto a special cradle of stram and sticks. Thebrownies and fairies crowd around, with great rever-ence. WILLOW You mean, you know who this baby belongs to? CHERLINDREA She belongs to all of us. She is the future queen and ruler of all kingdoms on earth.Willow starts to get up. WILLOW What a relief. Now I can go home.The queen fragments and reappears right in front ofWillow. CHERLINDREA No, Willow. Your journey has just begun. It has been foretold that this child shall bring about the downfall of Queen Bavmorda, whose evil powers have darkened our world. Upon you depends this princess's life. WILLOW Me?The Fairy Queen flashes and vanishes. Willow lowershimself back down again. She reappears behind him. CHERLINDREA You are the guardian, Willow. You must take her to Tir Asleen. WILLOW What is Tir Asleen?Willow can't keep track of her. She keeps changing hershape. The brownies and fairies snicker at Willow'sconfusion. CHERLINDREA It is a distant castle, where a great king and queen will look after Elora Danan and keep her safe until she is old enough to rule.She is gone again. Willow looks everywhere, frusturatedby these riddles and mysteries. WILLOW Where is Tir Asleen? How far is it?She reappears again. CHERLINDREA The way has been lost in time. But there is one person, a druid sor- ceress, who might guide you there. She was exiled by Queen Bavmorda many years ago. Her name is Fin Raziel. WILLOW You need a warrior for this job. I'm nobody. CHERLINDREA You are very important, Willow. WILLOW No I'm not. Have you really looked at me? (jumps to his feet) I'm short! Even for a Nelwyn!From down at his feet, Rool and Teemo stare up, insult-ed. WILLOW (continuing) Why can't you do it? You have mag- ical powers. CHERLINDREA My prsence cannot extend beyond this forest. But I can give you these...Cherlindrea drops three small objects in Willow's hand. CHERLINDREA They will protect you. Use them wisely.Willow looks at them for quite a while. WILLOW They look like acorns. CHERLINDREA Anything you hurl them at will turn to stone.Willow looks closely at the acorns, then up at thequeen. WILLOW They're magic? Are you serious?The forest light grows brighter. The queen looms overWillow and he again has to shield himself from thebrightness. CHERLINDREA (sternly) I am very serious, Willow. There is no time to lose.Now she intensifies her light so that Willow backsaway, completely covering his face. WILLOW But I've got a family to think about! They need me!The queen swirls around him like a solar wind, blowingthe forest trees, scaring even the brownies. And thenall of a sudden: silence. And total darkness. ALL WESEE, in dim moonlight, is Willow's face, peeking outfrom between his fingers. WILLOW Hello...?The queen's voice echoes the forest. CHERLINDREA Bavmord'a powers are growing like an evil plague. Soon she will con- trol the lives of you children, your wife, your village...everyone.Very gradually and beautifully the firey fairies beginto flicker, restoring light to the forest. More lightgenlty brightens, bathing the woods, and the FairyQueen reappears. She is holding Elora Danan in herarms. The brownies creep out from behind the trees.All eyes are upon Willow. CHERLINDREA The choice is yours.Willow takes the baby and looks at her for a moment.He struggles with his conscience. The fairies andbrownies wait in anticipation. At last Willow looks upat them, resolved and determined. WILLOW I'll do it. Yes, I will, I'll do it!The fairy kingdom sends up a great cheer and applause.Fairies giggle playfully around Willow's face, andbrownies hug his ankles. WILLOW But I only have one shoe.EXT. WOODED HILL - DAYWE SEE Willow's feet as he walks along. He has himselfa brand-new shoe.Spirits high, he treks in the sunshine, papoosestrapped to his back. Teemo rides in his pocket, whileRool straddles the papoose, tickling the giggling baby. WILLOW Wait till I tell my children. Stuff like this never happens in my village.He digs a magic acorn out of his pocket and tosses ithigh in the air. The brownies gasp. TEEMO Hey, careful there! WILLOW How do these work I wonder? I got- ta save one to show the High Aldwin. ROOL Look! Death below!Rool points through the trees. Willow hurries down thehill to the tree-line. In the valley below, 200 NOCK-MAAR SOLDIERS and CALVALRYMEN battle a hundred ragtagREBEL TROOPS. From this sage position high on thehillside, Willow watches in disgust. Weapons clash andmen fall to their deaths. WILLOW Daikinis...They hear a CLANK behind them. Willow slowly turnsaround. There is movement in the trees. The hillsidewoods are full of Nockmaar HORSEMEN moving right up next to him.In the valley, the oupowered rebels are being forcedup the hill toward them. Willow is suddenly standingunder several large horses and black-armored minions.He is frozen in fear. HORSEMEN Hyaaaaahh!!Swords flash and the horseman charge! The browniesjump and run for their lives. Willow stumbles andspins as horse after horse thunders past him, nearlytrampling him and the baby to death.The Nockmaar reinforcements descend upon the remainingrebels and crush them. Willow falls and quickly digsthe baby out of the papoose. She is shrieking in ter-ror. He holds her tight and runs along the tree-line,following the brownies, while the bloody battle ragesbelow. WILLOW Let's get out of here. Shhh, don't cry, Elora. Things can't get any worse than this...EXT. ROADSIDE TAVERN - DAYBleak rain dribbles down Willow's miserable face. Pro-tecting the baby, he hurries toward a tavern. The bot-tom of the building is an open stable with severalhorses. Two burly IRON-WORKERS clank a red-hot wagonrim, fixing a nearby wagon hitched to a horse.It's a rough place. Rool and Teemo peek out ofWillow's pockets. Upstairs PEOPLE drink and shout. TEEMO I'm not going in there. ROOL Me neither! WILLOW Don't worry--I'm a sorcerer. What could possibly happen?Suddenly there's a CRASH up above and two PICTS burstthrough a balcony and land in the mud, fighting vi-ciously. Rool and Teemo duck inside Willow's pockets.Willow steps around the Picts, dashes through thestable and up the stairs.INT. TAVERN - MAIN ROOM - DAYThe place is packed with tattooed PICTS, nomadic FAMI-LIES, MOTHERS wit BABIES, THIEVES and CUTTHROATS.Willow enters with the crying baby. WILLOW Could you spare some milk for this poor hungry baby?Everyone looks up. Mopping a table is an ugly BARMAIDas big as a wrestler. BARMAID Get outa here, Peck! PATRONS A Peck! Get him out! Beat it, Peck!They hurl stuff at him and threaten him with theirweapons. Willow runs along the wall and takes coverunder some stairs. He pulls open his pocket and peersdown inside. WILLOW I could use your help, boys.Instantly his pocket whips shut and trembles. Willowcautiously looks out under the stairs. He sees a pailof milk very near some ROUGHNECKS. Willow puts hislittle finger in the baby's mouth, silencing her. Hecreeps out. And bravely reaches for the milk. TEEMO'S VOICE Willow?Willow slaps his pocket. Then stretches his arm outvery, very slowly. And gets the pail and zips backunder the stairs. WILLOW This is not fun.He soaks a rag with milk and feeds the baby. Catchinghis breath, he backs up and leans agains a woodplankwall. WILLOW Woah!The plank gives way and Willow falls through the wall.INT. TAVERN - DAYWillow somersaults into a bedroom near an unmade bed.Peeking up he sees two women getting dressed in a pan-ic. One is a plump-chested WENCH with a pretty face. WENCH Hurry! Hurry!Very frightened, she looks out the window. The otherwoman, who wears a kerchief over her hair, packs thickpowder and make-up paint on her face. THE OTHER WOMAN (in a gruff voice) How do I look?It's Madmartigan! Willow pops up like a jack-in-the-box. WILLOW You!! MADMARTIGAN Where the hell did you come from?Willow strides toward Madmartigan, holding the babylike a machine gun. WILLOW I trusted you...The brownies peek out. ROOL Who's he? MADMARTIGAN You're crawling with rodents.The bedroom door explodes open. In storms a big, mean,half-drunk raging lug named LLUG. LLUG Where is he!!Madmartigan wraps a muffler around his throat. Thewench innocently curtsies. WENCH There's nobody here except me and my, um, cousin.Llug knocks his wife out of the way and glares susi-ciously at Madmartigan, who bats his heavily made-upeyelashes. He speaks in a high feminine voice. MADMARTIGAN How do you do.Llug sniffs at Madmartigan then fixes his gaze onMadmartigan's flat chest. He goes to squeeze himthere, but Madmartigan ducks out of the way andsnatches the baby from Willow. WILLOW Hey! Give me that baby! MADMARTIGAN (high voice) These Pecks make terrible nurse- maids. WILLOW Nursemaid?!Willow angrily jumps up and down, swiping at the baby. MADMARTIGAN (high voice) They get too excited.With a swing of the hip, Madmartigan butts Willow asideand maternally puts the baby against his chest. Llughoud-dogs him around the room, finally cornering himand staaring lecherously into his eyes. LLUG Wanna breeeeeeed?Madmartigan protects himself by holding the baby up infront of his face. Then he smells the baby. He wincesand groans. WILLOW (mischievously) Time to change her diaper. MADMARTIGAN Time to leave.Madmartigan throws open the door and dashes out. Buthe doesn't get very far. Several NOCKMAAR SOLDIERSpush him back in. Then they grab madmartigan and Wil-low, and Llug and his wife, and haul them all outside.INT. TAVERN - HALLWAY - DAYMadmartigan is slammed against a wall. The Willow.Then Llug and his wife. In the b.g. Nockmaar troopsare rousting the tavern, taking babies away fromfrightened mothers and inspecting them.Heavy bootsteps thud toward them. Willow looks out andrecognizes Sorsha, the black-helmeted knight from thebridge. SORSHA You! Are you the mother of that child? MADMARTIGAN No. (looks at Llug; in a high voice) I mean yes.Sorsha strides over to Madmartigan, her sword drawn. SORSHA Let me see it.Madmartigan looks at Willow then back at Sorsha. MADMARTIGAN (high voice) I can't. SORSHA Let me see it. WILLOW No! You can't!Madmartigan looks at Willow then back at Sorsha. MADMARTIGAN (high voice) I can't. SORSHA Why not? MADMARTIGAN (to Willow) Why not? WILLOW Because she's sick. MADMARTIGAN (to Sorsha) Because she's sick. SORSHA Give it to me!Sorsha stabs her sword into the floor like a spike.She grabs for the baby. Instinctively, Madmartigan el-bows her away, whacking her hard and knocking her off-balance against a nearby bench. The soldiers tense up,pointing their swords and spears.Sorsha regains her balance. She rips off her blackhelmet. Long wild red hair tumbles over her shoulders.She is a young woman, and Madmartigan's eyes pop open.He does his best to keep up his femal facade. MADMARTIGAN (high voice) Gawd...you're...beautiful... SORSHA You're not a woman.Sorsha comes right up to Madmartigan, squinting intohis eyes. The she rips away his kerchief and muffler. LLUG Not a woman??!!All hell breaks loose. Llug charges for Madmartigan'sthroat. Madmartigna tucks the baby under his arm anddashes right out the window. Llug bulldozes Sorsha andher Lieutenant, and the tavern patrons take advantageof the chaos and stampede for the stairs. Willow divesout the window after Madmartigan. SORSHA After them!!She grabs her sword and waves it at her soldiers whoclatter toward the stairs, flinging people out of theirway.EXT. ROADSIDE TAVERN - DAYMadmartigna jumps off the upstairs balcony and lands inthe wagon below. The two iron-workers look up withconcern. Then they react with surprise as Madmartiganrips away his disguise. WILLOW Madmartigan! Wait!Up above, Willow charges along the balcony. Madmarti-gan juggles the baby and whips the reins. The wagonpulls away, iron-workers scrambling after it. Willowflings himself off the balcony. The brownies tumbleout of his pocket. They all land in the back of thewagon as it takes off.It has stopped raining. In the stable under thetavern, horses smash together and people fall in themud, and the Nockmaar soldiers get tangled up in thetraffic jam.EXT. ROAD - CHASE - DAYAs Madmartigan lashes the horse, Willow crawls up tohum and takes the baby. WILLOW We could've been killed, Madmarti- gan!In the back, the brownies boucne all over the placeamid wooden kegs and other objects. When they finallyget their balane they look back in alarm.Chasing them are two Nockmaar HORSEMEN plus a DEATH DOGand a war chariot.Willow ducks low and peeks out, protectively huggingthe baby. The wagon bounces and flies along, but theminions are quickly gaining. Rool and Teemo springinto action. They struggle with all their might andmanage to kck small wooden kegs off the back of thewagon.The kegs bounce onto the road, and the minions losesome ground trying to avoid them. But soon the horse-men flank the wagon. One leaps off his galloping horseand climbs on board. The other draws an arrow and getsready to fire.Madmartigan is about to be shot between the eyes. Hequickly rolls into the back. The archer firse! andhits the other minion in the chest. Madmartigna snapsa wooden stake off the wagon side and smashesthe wounded minion off the wagon: he crashes onto theroad.Willow harnesses the papoose to his chest and grabs thereins. At the same time the minion archer leapsaboard. He and Madmartigan fight in the back. WILLOW Heeyah! Heeyah!Then there's a terrible howl right beside Willow. TheDeath Dog is leaping alongside the wagon, gnashing andtrying to board. Willow yanks the reins and swervesthe wagon into the dog, which yelps furiously. In theback, Madmartigan and the minion are thrown by theswerving jolt. WILLOW Oh no!Up ahead Willow sees an exposed tree root in the road.The wagon is headed straight for it! The wheel hitsthe root hard and Willow is dumped onto the wagon floorand very nearly goes overboard.In the back, Madmartigan and the minion keep fightingas the wagon clatter along out of control. The DeathDog catches up again and this time spring aboard. DEATH Bordak!!The dog snaps at the baby. Willow scurries under thewagon seat. The dog stands up on its hind feet. DEATH Bordak!!It gets ready to attack. But WHACK! an overhangingtree branch hits it and Willow looks up from under theseat and sees the mangled dog twitching and danglingfrom the tree, rapidly disappearing in the distance.In the back, meanwhile, the minion draws a knife. Mad-martigan ducks out of his way, hanging onto a post atthe edge of the tailgate. The minion comes after him.Suddenly the wagon wheel wobbles and the rim flies off.The jolt throws the minion off balance. Madmartigankicks him. The minion hurtles off the taligate butholds on, dragged by the wagon.Rool and Teemo grab hold of a rope securing a largewooden keg. Together they yank it. Untying the keg andsending it tumbling off the back. The minion looks upin horror as the heavy keg crushes him.But the danger is far from over. The wagon rocks alongwith one wheel half-destroyed. Willow whips the reinsand looks over his shoulder. Steam-rolling toward themis the war chariot!The Nockmaar CHARIOT DRIVER stands up and stuffs thereins in his mouth. He rasise his arm and begins totwirl a deadly weapon, a kind of bolo-blade, over hishead.Madmartigan defends himself with a wooden wagon-post.The chariot driver hurls the whistling blade: CHONK!It lodges in the post. Madmartigan tugs. So does thechariot driver. Back and forth, the wagons smashing upeach other. At last Madmartigan lets go of the postand the chariot driver is sent tumbling through theairl, over a cliff to his death. WILLOW Woah...woah...!Willow tries to stop the horse. But the wheel col-lapses and he is thrown off into a ditch. The browniesdive overboard. Madmartigan jumps off and delibreratelysends the wagon up the road. He scrambles down intothe ditch and lies flat beside Willow.Suddenly, hoofbeats thunder and Sorsha and the rest ofher troops gallop past. Lying flat, Madmartigna raiseshis head and sees Sorsha's long flowing red hair. MADMARTIGAN That girl is a vision.As soon as the troops are gone, Willow jumps up. WILLOW Where's the baby?? MADMARTIGAN I thought you had her! ROOL/TEEMO Willow!!The brownies are waving and gesturing madly, pointingat a heap of boards and rubble that broke off thewagon. Willow and Madmartigan race over and start dig-ging, flinging debris aside. MADMARTIGAN Now Willow, I know you're gonna blame me for this but it wasn't my fault...! WILLOW Elora Danan!Willow sees the battered, lifeless papoose. He grabsit and rips it open. Madmartigan kneels in the dirtremorsefully. MADMARTIGAN When I left the crossroads, I got ambushed by an elf! WILLOW Madmartigan! You saved her life! MADMARTIGAN I did?Willow holds up the baby. She giggles and smiles.Madmartigan switches gears, boasting: MADMARTIGAN I mean, of course I saved her life. She's almost my daughter, isn't she?Willow bundles the baby and looks up the road. WILLOW Let's get out of here before they come back.They hurry off into the darkening woods.EXT. WOODS - NIGHTA campfire blazes. Willow tends the baby while thebrownies point up at the stars. TEEMO Northeast is that way. We've come west and south. I think.Madmartigan dumps a big log on the fire, spraying thebrownies with sparks. ROOL Watch it! You're gonna set us on fire. MADMARTIGAN Not a bad idea.Madmartigan terrorizes them with a flaming stick. Thenhe squats beside Willow and the baby. MADMARTIGAN So you're on your way to Tir Asleen, huh? I hate to tell you this, Willow, but Tir Asleen dosn't exist. WILLOW Yes it does. The Fairy Queen told me. MADMARTIGAN The Fairy Queen? And the baby here's a princess? And these two rodents are your guides?He shakes his head sceptically, stretches out and putshis feet up on a log. MADMARTIGAN Yeah well...in the morning I think I'll be on my way.He laughs sarcastically. Willow sets down the baby. Hetakes off Kiaya's necklace and fingers it sadly. WILLOW Madmartigan, I need your help. MADMARTIGAN My help? A great magician like you? You don't need any help.Willow stares at him angrily. WILLOW But you're a great swordsman!He jumps and starts pacing around the fire. Rool andTeemo dive for cover. WILLOW (explodes) You're not a warrior, Madmartigan! A warrior wouldn't lie there and do nothing!He kicks Madmartigan's boot and knocks his feet off thelog. WILLOW We're in trouble! You've seen the big army that's after us! You're a fake! You're a bum! You're a-- you're a coward!!He picks up a rock and pitches it wildly at the fire,sending up a shower of sparks. Madmartigan eyes himwith concern. MADMARTIGAN What's with you, Peck?Willow lets it all pour out. He begins to cry. WILLOW I miss my wife! I miss my chil- dren! My boy Ranon! He's growing up so fast, he even helps me on the farm now! And little Mims! If you ever saw her sweet little face you'd *melt* Madmartigan, you'd *melt*! (sniffles) Or maybe you wouldn't. You don't know anything about love. You don't know anything about any- thing...Willow sits on the ground, exhausted. Madmartiganpicks up the baby and sits with her in his lap. MADMARTIGAN I was in love once, Willow. She had a hold on my heart. I could barely function. (a pause) I *was* a great swordsman! I was knighted! I could have been king! WILLOW You? MADMARTIGAN Yeah me. King! But she betrayed me. She robbed me of my dream.Madmartigan gently rocks the baby and stares at thefire. Willow watches him curiously. MADMARTIGAN I'll never fall in love again...EXT. WOODS - MORNINGWillow wakes up and looks around. The baby is gone.He panics. He scrambles a short distance throughsome bushes. WILLOW Madmartigan! Madmartigan!They've been camped all night near the shore of a LAKE.Willow finds Madmartigan and the baby bathing happilyin the water. MADMARTIGAN Relax, Willow. We're having fun.The baby squeals with delight as Madmartigan twirls heraround. He lifts her yp and carries her to Willow onthe shore. The brownies crawl thorugh the bushes.Rool points out at the lake. ROOL That's it! The sorceress lives there!In the middle of the lake is an island with a singletree. TEEMO Are you sure? ROOL (excited) Yes! Raziel! She lives out on that island!Madmartigan lets out a sarcastic, sceptical laugh.Teemo scratches his head and squints out at the island. TEEMO That tree dosn't look like gold to me. MADMARTIGAN Gold!!Madmartigan rubs his chin with sudden interest. TEEMO Its branches are supposed to be made of gold, solid gold. WILLOW How are we going to get out there?Madmartigan is suddenly pacing and thinking. MADMARTIGAN We'll find a way, Willow. Look over there--that looks like a village--maybe they've got a boat. Come on, what are you waiting for?Madmartigan runs along the shore toward a small villagein the distance.EXT. DESERTED FISHING VILLAGE - DAYHalf a dozen decrepit huts sit rotting on the edge ofthe lake. There are no inhabitants, just a lot of dis-carded junk, including a few battered fishing boats.But Madmartigan, keeping one eye on the gold tree outon the island, is undaunted. He rummages through thedebris, hauling out a fishing boat and shouldering ittoward the water. MADMARTIGAN Give me a hand here, Peck!Willow hoists the baby into the papoose and helps Mad-martigan. BOY What are you doing?They turn around. A golden-haired BOY is standingwaist-deep in th elake. Madmartigan is instantly waryof him. MADMARTIGAN It's nothing to do with you.But the boy looks innocent and harmless, and Willow ap-proaches him. WILLOW We need to get out to that island. BOY The island is cursed.Madmartigan scoffs at this nonsense, grunting and push-ing the boat into the water. WILLOW We've traveled a long way. We're looking for Fin Raziel. TEEMO The sorceress. BOY She's there. But you can't go there. The island is cursed. MADMARTIGAN (no patience) Yeah? Who cursed it? BOY Queen Bavmorda. Her powers govern the elements. MADMARTIGAN Ahh, he's trying to protect the gold. Come on, Willow. Jump in.Madmartigan climbs into the boat and grabs an oar,eager to go. Willow looks down at the brownies forhelp. WILLOW What would the Fairy Queen say? ROOL She's not here. TEEMO (to Rool) Obviously. WILLOW Without Raziel we'll never find Tir Asleen. (decision) We'd better go.Willow marches to the boat. Calmly accepting theirchoice, the golden-haired boy dives into the lake anddisappears. Willow and the brownies board the boat,and Madmartigan poles them away from the shore.EXT. LAKE - DAYThey row across the placid lake toward the island.EXT. ISLAND - DAYThey climb onto the rocky shore. Flies buzz and swarmaround them, and creepy bugs crawl around their feet.Broken skeletons litter the shore. Handing the babyback and forth, Willow and Madmartigan claw their wayup to the large tree. WILLOW Raziel? Hello? Fin Raziel?Madmartigan greedily reaches up to touch a branch. RAZIEL Get away! Get away!A littel animal scurries down the tree and hisses vi-ciously at Madmartigan, chattering its teeth. RAZIEL You'll die! You'll die!RAZIEL scampers over to Willow. Her voice screecheslike a parrot. She looks like an otter with a bushtail. RAZIEL Who are you! Who are you! WILLOW I'm Willow Ufgood. I'm here to find Fin Raziel.She springs right onto Willow's chest. RAZIEL That's me! Raziel! Raziel!Willow looks down at the browines questioninghly. WILLOW This can't be right. This isn't a sorceress. This is some kind of animal. TEEMO Queen Bavmorda transformed her. RAZIEL What do you want! WILLOW We need your help. To take this baby to Tir Asleen. She's a prin- cess.Still sceptical, Willow shows Raziel the baby's mark.Raziel shoots up onto a branch and frantically flicksher tail. RAZIEL Elora Danan!Madmartigan snaps a branch off the tree. A flock ofbirds suddenly screech and fly away. His eyes bulge. MADMARTIGAN Rool! Teemo! You were right! This whole tree is made of gold!!He strips away the bark, revealing a vein of gold. RAZIEL Fools! You should never have come to this place! We're all going to die!The wind begins to blow and the sky darkens. Razielzips over to Willow and whispers intensely. RAZIEL We've got to get off this island right now. Hurry! The boat! It's our only chance!The wind howls. they hurry down to the boat. WILLOW Madmartigan!Madmartigan is greedily breaking branches off the tree. MADMARTIGAN Wait! Gold! Gold!Waves lash at the boat as they jump aboard. Madmarti-gan loads up with branches. As they push off, hescrambles down the rocks. Just in time he jumps intothe boat as the storm swirls it out into the frothylake.EXT. LAKE - DAYWillow clutches the baby as the raging storm pitchesthe boat. WILLOW Help, Madmartigan! The oar!Madmartigan hangs onto his gold, but pices of it dropand topple overboard. MADMARTIGAN My gold!Suddenly a hand appears on the stern. The water boyclimbs in. RAZIEL Kill him! WILLOW No! RAZIEL Kill him!Madmartigna hesitates but then smashes the boy backinto the lake. The boy surfaces like a dolphin. Hisshape begins to change, becoming fish-like, diving andvanishing.Then: he attacks the boat! He is now a ferociousshark-like monster. He chomps the boat and the goldbranches slide into the water. Madmartigan bashes themonster with the oar, then grabs an anchor. The mon-ster attacks again and Madmartigan jabs its gill withthe anchor.The monster sinks into the lake. They all sigh withrelief. Madmartigan shrugs proudly. Suddenly the an-chor line unravels, tangling Madmartigan's legs infishing nets and yanking him overboard.Underwater, Madmartigan swirls behind the monster. Hepulls himself along the anchor line and finally cutshimself free with his dagger.He surfaces and madly swims toward the pitching boat.Willow reaches out to him. The monster surfaces andcircles the boat. Then it attacks Madmartigan. MADMARTIGAN No!! Help!! Willow!!!Willow digs out a magic acorn. But he drops it! Hefumbles in the leaking boat and finally finds it. Themonster opens its jaws and goes to devour Madmartigan.Willow throws the acorn.The monster miraculously turns to stone. Madmartigangrabs the boat and watches in amazement as the monstersinks. Willow hauls him into the boat.EXT. LAKESHORE - DAYThe storm begins to die down as they jump to shore, ex-hausted. Madmartigan wears nothing now but a raggedloincloth. He falls to his knees, coughing and spit-ting. MADMARTIGAN Willow...you...you got...magic...! Wait...we could team up...!He pulls himself up and follows Willow. Suddenly theyall stop. Sorsha and her men come out of the woods. RAZIEL Flee! Flee!The brownies scurry into a hole. Raziel makes a dashfor it but a soldier skewers her tail with his spear,dangling her in front of Sorsha. SORSHA Raziel. Did you think my mother would allow you to escape?Sorsha gestures, and the soldier takes Raziel away.The lieutenant wrestles the baby away from Willow. Hegives her to Sorsha. SORSHA This is what we're looking for. It bears the markings.Willow panics. MADMARTIGAN Don't worry, Willow. If there's one thing I'm good at, it's charm- ing a woman...He swaggers forward. Sorsha turns and looks at him. MADMARTIGAN So. Couldn't live without me, huh?Sorsha looks up and down at his naked body. SORSHA Lose your skirt? How embarassing.Madmartigan looks down and adjusts his loincloth. MADMARTIGAN Still got what counts.A pause as he smiles at her. SORSHA Not for long.She raises her fist and zap: Madmartigan is instantlysurrounded by spears and swords. SORSHA We'll join the column. Bring them with us.Madmartigan and Willow are roughly taken away. Sorshaand her troops mount horses and ride off. Rool andTeemo crawl lup from under a rock. TEEMO We gotta follow them. ROOL Us?? We'll never catch them. Any- way, we're all done, Teemo. Let's go home.Rool walks off and Teemo grabs him, yanks him back. TEEMO Get back here, Rool! ROOL Ouch! Let go of me!Rool throws a punch, and the brownies somersault intothe bushes fighting each other.EXT. ROAD - DAYSorsha and her men now ride with a caravan of fiftyNOCKMAAR TROOPS. Chained by their necks. Willow andMadmartigan walk behind a wagon. Raziel sits trappedin a cage on the back of the wagon. WILLOW I can't go on...Willow loses strength, falls and is dragged. Madmarti-gan picks him up and carries him on his shoulders.Sorsha sees this. MADMARTIGAN Willow, why don't you use your mag- ic to get us out of here? RAZIEL He's no magician. MADMARTIGAN He turned that monster into stone!Raziel peers sternly at Willow, who is eye-level withher cage. RAZIEL Did *you* give that acorn its power? WILLOW No. RAZIEL A magician *makes* magic. Any fool can use it.Madmartigan shakes his head at her. MADMARTIGAN Then you get us out of here. RAZIEL I will! But I need help! WILLOW I'll help you...! MADMARTIGAN I won't. RAZIEL You must learn magic. WILLOW That's all I ever wanted! RAZIEL Then I will teach you.Sorsha rides up from the rear of the caravan, carryingthe baby, who is crying. Madmartigan, with Willowstill on his shoulders, straightens up and flirts withher. MADMARTIGAN Nice horse...nice hair...real nice hair...I'd say you've got the most beautiful hair I've ever--She flashes her eyes at him. SORSHA Wolff wants to boil you in oil.She nods toward her Lieutenant, who snarls viciously. SORSHA Don't tempt me.She turns away. The baby squirms and cries. WILLOW If you rest the baby on your shoulder, she'll stop crying. SORSHA Shut up.Sorsha rides along. She shifts the baby to her othershoulder, and she instantly stops crying. Sorshathrows a look at Willow. Madmartigan takes a long deepbreath. MADMARTIGAN Mmmm, I love the smell of a woman. SORSHA (angry threat) My step-father's going to tear you apart.Madmartigan pounds his chest and taunts her: MADMARTIGAN I'm torn apart already. I mean it! Under all that armor is a beautiful--CRACK! Sorsha whips her horse and gallops ahead. MADMARTIGAN Who is that girl, anyway? RAZIEL Sorsha, Queen Bavmorda's daughter.Madmartigan snaps his finger and discourages himself. MADMARTIGAN Forget that one, Madmartigan.Raziel leaps against the bars of her cage, chatters herteeth and whispers to Willow. RAZIEL Willow. To learn magic, first you must make your own philosopher's stone! WILLOW What do I need for that? RAZIEL We must start with feathers, dung, and a lock of your hair.Willow pulls a strand of his hair out in front of hiseyes and frowns at it. Madmartigan, meanwhile, can'ttake his eyes off Sorsha. MADMARTIGAN Now that's a woman...!EXT. NOCKMAAR CAMPSITE - NIGHTFires and torches burn around pitched tents. Soldierseat and drink, and meat is thrown out to Death Dogs.From her cage, Raziel looks down at Willow, stillchained to the wagon next to Madmartigan. Willow isgrinding a substance with a rock. RAZIEL Keep working at it. Forget all you know, or think you know. A magician's power depends on disord- er of the mind.She twists her head through the bars. Madmartigansquints up at her. MADMARTIGAN You got that one covered.Willow hears the baby crying in a distant tent. WILLOW I hope she's all right. How much more do I have to do of this? RAZIEL Till it's in a powder. The energy exits within you... WILLOW (reciting) I know, and the magician's goal is to find his true self. But what's this got to do with it? RAZIEL As below, so above. You hold the univers, Willow, in your hand.Madmartigan clasps his forhead. MADMARTIGAN I'm beginning to think you two *deserve* to be locked up. WILLOW The universe is a living creature, like you and me, Madmartigan.Madmartigan cynically gazes at the sky, gesturing wide-ly. MADMARTIGAN We're a tiny version of all that? RAZIEL As above, so below.Madmartigan rolls his eyes. Willow jumps to his feetand shows Raziel the substance. WILLOW I'm all finished. Now what? RAZIEL Burn it to a fine ash.Willow looks around. Heavily armed Nockmaar minionsrip chunks of meat around a campfire. WILLOW How am I gonna do that? RAZIEL Patience. Concentrate. You will find a way.Suddenly bootsteps clomp toward them. Willow quicklyfolds the powder inside some cloth and hides it in hispocket. The Lieutenant marches up and scrutinizes themsuspiciously. He abruptly snatches Willow up, hacksthe chain and drags him off. WILLOW What's going on?Madmartigan sturggles against his chains. Angry andworried: MADMARTIGAN Hurt him and you'll answer to me!INT. SORSHA'S TENT - NIGHTThe Lieutenant clamps irons on Willow's wrists, flingshim into a tent and exits. Willow looks up and seesSorsha, still in her uniform, impatiently pacing wihtthe crying baby. SORSHA This baby won't do what I say. You seem to know what to do. Here! Make it shut up.Sorsha dumps the baby in Willow's arms and then backsaway. WILLOW She needs to be changed. SORSHA I changed her already!Willow politely shrugs. WILLOW She needs to be changed again.Sorsha crosses her arms in a hugg and watches as Willowchanges the baby. Soon the baby stops crying. Re-lieved yet still anxious, Sorsha paces to a mirror.Willow rocks the baby gently, absently looking at thefire. Then his eyes focus on the fire. SORSHA Who is that horrible friend of yours? WILLOW (watching the fire) Madmartigan. SORSHA Who is he? WILLOW I don't know much about him.Sorsha fiddles with her long red hair. Willow creepstoward the fire. SORSHA He's very bold. Do you really think my hair is beautiful?She turns and looks right at Willow. He looks back.She asks the question again by holding out strands ofher hair. WILLOW Uh, yes. It's very nice hair.He suddenly strides over to Sorsha. WILLOW She's hungry. SORSHA I know she's hungry. I tried to feed her but she wouldn't eat a thing. I'm not a wet nurse. WILLOW Here. Hold her.He hands Sorsha the baby, then goes to the fire wherethere's a stone crock of milk. He carefully takes hiscloth pouch out of his pocket and unfolds it. At theother side of the tent Sorsha awkwardly paces with thebaby. SORSHA I tried everything. A spoon. I poured milk into her mouth, she just spat it out. I don't know what to do, I'm not a mother.During this, Willow ignites his powdery substance. Itflares slightly then burns to an ash. He gathers itup, then returns to Sorsha with the milk. WILLOW Sometimes she likes it heated.Willow finds a strip of cloth, dips it in the milk, andfeeds Elora Danan in Sorsha's arms. He looks up atSorsha and smiles. WILLOW She's a good baby.Sorsha looks down at the baby.EXT. NOCKMAAR CAMPSITE - MORNINGThe caravan packs up to move on. Soldiers drag Willowto the wagon and lift him on board, chaining him besideRaziel's cage. Willow excitedly pats his pocker, andwhispers: WILLOW I did it! I got the ashes!When the soldiers leave, he digs out the pouch andproudly shows it to Raziel. RAZIEL Good! The first step is complete.Chained behind the wagon, Madmartigan reaches forwardand pokes Willow with his finger? MADMARTIGAN Did she ask about me? WILLOW Who? MADMARTIGAN Come on, Peck, don't give me a hard time. You were in her ten all night. Did she say anything?Willow deliberately plays innocent. WILLOW She said lots of thing.s MADMARTIGAN Willow!Willow grins. At last: WILLOW She asked about you, Madmartigan. MADMARTIGAN Well what did she say?Suddenly Sorsha gallops by on horseback, holding thebaby. She flings a wad of clothes at Madmartigan. SORSHA Here. You're going to need these where we're going.She rides off. Madmartigan looks down at the clothes.The looks at Willow. MADMARTIGAN She's in love. WILLOW You're crazy. I think you're in love.EXT. SNOW MOUNTAIN - DAYThe Nockmaar caravan climbs into snow-covered moun-tains. In the wagon, Raziel is grilling Willow. Heconcentrates hard, cramming, memorizing, straining. RAZIEL We don't have much time left! Go on! Go on! WILLOW I must concetrate my imagination...to creat a new...reality! RAZIEL What's the magician's weapon? WILLOW The limitless power of...Raziel flips around in spasms of impatience. RAZIEL Your will! Your will! What else could it be? WILLOW (frustrated) I can't remember all these things. What am I learning? RAZIEL The art of transformation! WILLOW (exasperated) But what am I gonna transform?? RAZIEL Me!Willow and Madmartigan stare at Raziel. WILLOW You? MADMARTIGAN What are you gonna become, Raziel? Queen of the rodents?Sorsha rides up to the wagon. SORSHA The baby's cold. Take her.She dismounts. With care, keeping the baby bundled,she hands the baby to Willow. Madmartigan watches andlistens. RAZIEL You remind me of your father, Sor- sha. SORSHA My father was a weakling. RAZIEL He was a great king. (Madmartigan reacts) Not like your step-father, not like your mother. He ruled Tir Asleen with kindness, and a generous heart. SORSHA My mother calls that weakness. MADMARTIGAN What do *you* call it?Sorsha turns and glares at Madmartigan. SORSHA I do what I'm told. MADMARTIGAN Too bad you're not more like your father.She looks at him a moment, then abruptly mounts herhorse and rides ahead.EXT. ROAD TOWARD SNOW CAMP - LATE AFTERNOONThe caravan rides toward a large Nockmaar camp. DeathDogs howl and fires burn ominously in the distance.Willow and madmartigan watch as KING KAEL rides out tomeet the caravan.Kael is huge, powerful and cruel, partbeast, part man,and he carries a terrible sword at his side. Sorshacarefully shows him the baby. He grabs it from her. SORSHA Be careful. KAEL Don't tell me what to do.Kael viciously hits Sorsha, knocking her off her horse.Madmartgian and Willow watch angrily. Kail gallops to-ward camp with the baby under his ar. Sorsha shakesaway the pain and, humiliated, mounts her horse. MADMARTIGAN We gotta get the baby out of here.Raziel dashes around her cage. RAZIEL Tonight! Complete the philosopher's stone! I must be turned back!Looking off into the camp, angry and resolute, Willowtakes out the ingredients for the stone. WILLOW I'll do it, Raziel...EXT. SNOW CAMP - NIGHTNow in a kind of portable cell, Madmartigan clutchesthe jail bars and looks out at the camp. Fires andtorches burn, and Nockmaar soldiers patrol.Shivering cold, willow sits cross-legged in the jail,melting snow into a bowl. On a nearby lean-to, whereskins and shields are kept, Raziel hangs in her cage.Somewhere the baby is crying. In the distance Sorshagoes inside one of the tenst. There's a muffled yel-ling between Sorsha and Kael. Then Keal storms out ofthe tent and goes inside the tent next door.Willow pours the ashes into the melted snow. RAZIEL Let it settle. Carefully, slowly. Concentration and will. Now pour the water off.As Willow works, Madmartigan binds together scrapsticks of wood, making a long pole. He gingerly hooksRaziel's cage with this, lifting it from the spike. WILLOW Oooh, this smells terrible. RAZIEL That's the life spark. Exxence of magic and sorcery!Madmartigan angles the pole and the cage slide toardhim. He grabs it with both hands and rips it apart.Raziel right away scurries down the cell bars, jumpsinto the jail and bits Willow's hand. WILLOW Ouch!! RAZIEL Shhhhh!They look out nervously at patrolling Nockmaar sol-diers. Willow sucks the back of his hand. WILLOW What'd you bit me for!! RAZIEL We need blood. To nourish the stone. charge the stone with ener- gy.Willow drips his blood into the concoction then stirsit with a twig. It begins to glow from within. RAZIEL The components of the stone are fusing...Willow's eyes widen with anticipation.EXT. SNOW CAMP - NIGHT - LATERFires have burned down. Most of the camp is sleeping.It is nearing dawn. Madmartigan stares out at Sorsha'stent, deep in thought. Willow holds up the completedPHILOSOPHER'S STONE, a red ball of pliable putty. RAZIEL Again: what is the magician's weapon? WILLOW His will. RAZIEL Now use it.Willow presses the philopher's stone against thechainlock. He sheepishly looks over his hsoulder atRaziel. WILLOW I just wanted to test it first. RAZIEL No! Change me back into a sor- ceress, Willow.Willow goes to Raziel and concentrates with physicaland mental intensity. WILLOW Avaggdu, supriom, luwatha...It starts to work. Raziel curls into a ball of fur.The fur changes to feathers. She begins to squawkstrangely. She emerges as a raven-sized bird. WILLOW What did I do?He sags with exhaustion and massages his blisteredhands. Then: CLINK! The lock falls open. They alllook over, and Madmartigan picks it up off the ground. MADMARTIGAN Not bad, Peck. I'm impressed. You busted the lock.Wilow clutches Madmartigan's arm. He holds up thestone. WILLOW Madmartigan. Let's go. Let's get Eloran Danan.With coldness in his eyes, madmartigan stares acrossthe camp at Sorsha's tent. MADMARTIGAN Let's get Elora Danan.They sneak away. RAZIEL Wait! What about me!Raziel flaps her wings and flies up into the dark sky.EXT. THROUGH THE CAMP - DAWNWillow and Madmartigan sneak behind tents, hiding fromthe patrolling guards. Very quietly they creep up toKael's tent. Madmartigan knocks out a guard and stealshis knife. They crawl dangerously over to Sorsha'stent. MADMARTIGAN You're a magician, Willow. But I'm a thief. Wait here. I'll get the baby.Madmartigan slits the back of the tent open and slipsinside. Raziel flutters down and lands on Willow'sshoulder. RAZIEL I'm supposed to be a beautiful wo= man.Willow shrugs apologetically.INT. SORSHA'S TENT - DAWNCrouched inside the large tent, Madmartigan calculateshis next move. In the far corner, Sorsha lies asleep.He steals the baby from a crib of straw. Starts toleave. But stops. Willow pokes his head inside. WILLOW (whispers) Come on, Madmartigan...!Madmartigan stares over at Sorsha. Lured by her beau-ty, he slowly walks toward her bed. WILLOW What are you doing? Get out of there...!Madmartigan looks down at her. Morning rushlight il-luminates her youthful face, and her long red hair isspread across her pillow. Out of her armor, in softnightclothes, she looks like a goddess. Upon herbreast is a golden necklet, inlaid with ornate jewels.Quietly: MADMARTIGAN I love you.He kisses her lips. Her eyes open. SORSHA One move, and you really will be a woman.Holding the baby, Madmartigan does not move a muscle.Sorsha holds a knife at his crotch. SORSHA You're a fool. Now put her back. MADMARTIGAN I'm not going to let this baby die.Sorsha presses the knife. SORSHA Don't make me kill you.Willow watches as Madmartigna carefully backs away fromSorsha. MADMARTIGAN I believe you would...Sitting up, Sorsha waves her knife. Madmartigan placesthe baby in the straw crib. SORSHA Why did you say that? MADMARTIGAN Say what? SORSHA I love you.Madmartigan walks back to Sorsha' bed. Willow crawlsinto the tent, behind Madmartigan's back. MADMARTIGAN Because it's true. SORSHA I don't believe you.Sorsha defensively kneels on her bed as Madmartiganwalks toward her. He shows no fear of her knife, com-pelled instead by honest passion. For once, he isn'tconning anybody. His feelings are genuine. MADMARTIGAN I wish it weren't true. I swore I'd never let this happen. I hate you. I hate your beauty, I hate your innocence, I hate the feelings you've awakened in me.The knife trembles in Sorsha's hand. MADMARTIGAN I'm in love with you, Sorsha. I don't want to be, but a power has enchanted me and I stand helpless against it. It's torture. Battle- field or prison cell was never half as cruel.He kneels onto her bed. Her hand falls, her knifefalls to the floor, her chest heaves with fear and emo-tion. MADMARTIGAN I want you and I can't have you so I want you all the more. If this were another time and another place I'd--He stops. He looks into her eyes. Willow dashes out ofthe tent with the baby. SORSHA You'd what?Madmartigan takes Sorsha in his arms and kisses her.Her trembling body surrenders to him. Until:They hear a SCREAM outside the tent. It all happensquickly. Kael rips open the canvas and catches them intheir embrace. In one hand he holds the baby. In theother hand: Willow. KAEL What's going on here!!Sorsha sees the baby, sees the empty crib, and smashesMadmartigan hard across the face. SORSHA Deceiver!!Kael hurls Willow across the tent and tosses the babyin the straw. Growling horribly he lunges at Madmarti-gan. Madmartigan rolls away and sees Sorsha's swordnearby. Grabs it. As Kael draws his sword, Madmarti-gan artfully slices away the center pole, and the en-tie tent collapses.EXT. SNOW CAMP - MORNINGBodies writhe under the fallen mass of canvas, and Ra-ziel hovers and screeches above. Then, a silver bladeslits through the tent, and out jumps Madmartiganwielding Sorsha's sword.Alarm! Nockmaar soldiers and Death Dogs charge acrossthe snow. Madmartigan battles them with incredibleskill, backing toward the mountain slope.Wilow crawls out from under the corner of the tent,clutchign the baby. Madmartigan kills several so-diers, littering the snow with bodies and weapons.Willow reacts, impressed by Madmartigan's swordsman-ship. Madmartigan makes the mistake of acknowledgingit: he bows, prod and cocky. MADMARTIGAN Whoops!He slips on the ice and catches himself. Nearby ashield skids off along the snow. MADMARTIGAN Willow! Jump on the shiled!Kael howls and thrashes inside the collapsed tent.Then he gashes it open with his huge black sword. Hesees Willow and the baby get on the large shield. KAEL Bowmen! Horses! After them!Madmartigan runs toward the shield. Archers draw theirbows. Madmartigan turns and sees Sorsha beside Kael. MADMARTIGAN Sorsha! I didn't betray you. I love you!As arrows rain down around him, Madmartigan leaps ontothe shield behind Wuillow. Sorsha watches them as theyslide away down the mountain, Raziel flapping andshrieking overhead. KAEL Kill them!!Kael waves his sward and a crack squad of NockmaarHORSEMEN gallop down the mountain after the sled-shield.EXT. DOWN THE SNOWY MOUNTAIN - DAYWillow hugs the baby while he sits betweenMadmartigan's legs, and the shield zooms down the moun-tain, zig-zagging through trees. Madmartigan steers byusing Sorsha's sword as a ski pole.The Nockmaar horsemen gallop after them.The shield skips and flies over snowdrifts and bumps.Raziel squawks in terror above them. Just missingtrees and rocks, they pick up speek. Their eyes sud-denly widen. Dead ahead is a huge wall of ice! WILLOW Nooo!!!Willow shuts his eyes. the shield speeds toward thewall. At the last moment Madmartigan steers them intoa small opening, little more than a crack. Raziel,nearly smashing into the wall herself, soars up intothe sky and loses them.INT. ICE TUNNEL - DAYThey slide and sway down a long tube of ice, picking upincredible speed until they loop 360 degrees upside-down and around and go shooting out a hole at the otherend.EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE - DAYThey soar thorugh the air. Madmartigan and Willowshriek in terror. But Elora Danan giggles: she's hav-ing fun! But in the air the shield goes one way andthey go another, flipping and hanging onto one anotherand landing on soft snow with a fffump. Inertia keepsthem rolling.Clumped together, they tumble down the mountain, gath-ering snaw as they go, bouncing and rolling into asnowball that gets bigger and bigger and bigger andbigger and bigger!EXT. VILLAGE - DAYThe snowball steamrolls toward a small village at thefoot of the mountain. CHLDREN look up and squeal withdelight while the adult VILLAGERS run for their lives.It plows through the middle of the village, scatteringpeole and animals left and right. At last it smashesagainst a stone house and cracks open like an egg.Raziel flies down and lands on top of the snowball,flapping her wings frantically. madmartigan crawls outas the villagers rush up. They stand back in amaze-ment: the baby starts crying. MADMARTIGAN Willow! Willow! Are you all right?Madmartigan drags Willow and the baby out of the snow.Willow's body is limp, he's unconscious. Then a VIL-LAGER points up at the mountain. VILLAGER King Kael! ANOTHER VILLAGER Nockmaar troops! MADMARTIGAN (to villagers) Help us.In the distance Kael and his squad of about 15 horsemencharge toward the village. The villagers flee intotheir huts and houses. Madmartigan scoops up Willowand the baby. Some villagers usher them around acorner and into a house just as Kael's army invades thetown.INT. HOUSE CELLAR - DAYMadmartigan is bustled underground thorugh a cellarinto a hidden storage room and a disguised door shutsbehind him. MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN huddle here insilence, like refugees or criminals. Madmartigan handsthe crying baby to a WOMAN then lays Willow on thefloor. Suddenly a huge hand clamps his shoulder: hisold friend and rival Airk Thaughbaer. AIRK Madmartigan. Settled down with a family huh?Madmartigan knocks Airk's hand away. MADMARTIGAN You left me to die, friend. AIRK You managed alright. MADMARTIGAN Is this what's left of your army?Among the refugees is a handful of war-battered WARRI-ORS. One of them, an OFFICER looks out through theceiling beams. OFFICER Keep that baby quiet.They hear hoofbeats outside. Airk gives Madmartigan aflask of whiskey. He squirts whiskey into Willow'smouth and Willow coughs and shudders awake.EXT. VILLAGE - DAYRaziel flies onto a rooftop and looks down. Nockmaarsoldiers flood the village, dismounting, kicking downdoors, searching houses. Then Raziel sees Kael ridingalongside Sorsha.In her armor, at a distance, Sorsha looks fierce. ButCLOSER her eyes show confusion, hesitation. Kaelwatches her closely as he waves his sword at the vil-lage. KAEL Where is it! Tell us or we'll burn your village! Sorsha!He shakes her roughly. She dismounts. Raziel watchesas Sorsha and two other soldiers enter the house whereMadmartigan and Willow are hiding.INT. HOUSE CELLAR - DAYWillow holds the baby tight. Madmartigan, Airk and theOfficer watch through the cracks. Boots pound above,shaking dust down on them. A door opens.Nobody breathes. Willow buries the baby in his chest.Madmartigan peeks through the door. Sorsha, alone,comes down into the cellar. They see her. Searching.Airk's men reach for their swords, begin to draw.Whisper: OFFICER Kill her.Madmartigam shakes his head. MADMARTIGAN You'll draw the others.Airk looks at Madmartigan curiously. Madmartiganwatches Sorsha. She is right there, inches away.Inaudibly, be says her name. At last she goes backupstairs.INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - DAYSorsha comes up and begins to leave with the other twosoldiers.INT. CELLARIn Willow's arms, the baby lets out a cry.INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRSSorsha and the soldiers stop and draw swords. Thebaby's cry is suddenly drowned out by a loud SDRRECH.Raziel flaps in through a window and flies madly aroundthe house, cawing and shrieking insanely. Sorsha andthe soldiers sheathe their swords and leave.INT. CELLAREveryone sighs with relief.EXT. VILLAGE - DAYIn the distance the Nockmaar army is setting houses ab-laze and Kael is terrorizing the fleeing people withhis sword. Sorsha mounts her horse. Her attention ismomemtarily caught by a MAN across the street who, fromthe back, looks like Madmartigan. She gasps. The manturns around. She sags with disappointment, spurs herhorse, and rides off.The deadly squad of Nockmaar horsemen gallops out ofthe village.INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - DAYMadmartigan and Willow come upstairs with Airk and hismen. AIRK It's you they're after, Madmarti- gan. What did you do this time? MADMARTIGAN They're not after me. They want the baby.Living in the house is a scrawny, shifty-eyed man namedCUTH. He watches and listens. AIRK Who is this baby?Willow steps forward, both protective and proud. WILLOW The princess, Elora Danan.They all know of her. They all sigh with respeck andawe, and they bow. PEOPLE The prophecy has come true. AIRK Give her to us. We'll protect her.Raziel screeches from a ceiling beam. RAZIEL Not safe! Not safe!Willow looks up at Raziel hopefully. WILLOW We're taking her to Tir Asleen. She'll be safe there from Bavmorda's powers.Airk looks up at Raziel. Then down at Willow. Heclasps Madmartigan's arm. AIRK Tir Asleen is a myth. It doesn't exist. RAZIEL It does! It does! I will show you!Airk impatiently waves the bird away and shoves Madmar-tigan in the chest. AIRK You gonna be a hero, Madmartigan? I've lost half my men fighting Kael, and Bavmorda, and the Nock- maar army. Now you and this Peck, and that magpie up in the rafters, are gonna take 'em on alone? MADMARTIGAN (challenging) Then come with us.Airk angrily stabs his finger at the floor. AIRK The war is here! In towns and vil- lages like this!Airk crosses his arms and turns his back, looking outat the burning houses and the suffering families. AIRK You're chasing a dream. MADMARTIGAN Just get me some horses.Airk glares at him furiously. Then he kicks open thedoor and storms out into the street. Madmartigan andWillow hurry after him.EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE - VILLAGE OUTSKIRTS - DAYAirk and his men, plus some villagers, watch as Madmar-tigan mounts a large horse. Then some villagers helpWillow wiggle up onto a small pony. They sling thebaby over Willow's back and stuff saddlebags with pro-visions MADMARTIGAN Once again, Airk, we say goodbye.Sadly and cynically, Airk laughs. AIRK One day one of us willl stand on the other's grave.They shake hands ruggedly. Madmartigan nods at Willowand they head off. Airk watches them go, clearly am-bivalent about staying behind. They ride up the snowyslope, Raziel circling above.WE SEE Cuth. He scratches his filthy beard. He sneaksoff through the village, in the direction of the Nock-maar army.EXT. MOUNTAIN - DAYSnow circles around them as they climb. Then, oddly,the mountain becomes warmer, and the snow melts away.They reach a slope of dark vitreous lava. RAZIEL Nockmaar! Nockmaar!Far away, at the top of the mountain, looms the ominousCatsle of Nockmaar. The black lava flows from itlike a deadly shadow.EXT. CAVE OF THE EBORSISK - DAYTheir horses rear up as they approach the mouth of thecave. Raziel waits for them, circling and cawing. RAZIEL This way! The cave!They dismount and lead the horses. But the horses pan-ic, their frightened neighing voices echoing deep inthe gloomy cave, and they break away and run off.Willow swallows hard. He and Madmartigan follow Razielinside.INT. CAVE OF THE EBORSISK - DAYDaylight is soon replaced by the orange glow of moltenlava. WILLOW Madmartigan! I can't stand being in closed-in places. MADMARTIGAN Want me to carry Elora? WILLOW I'm used to her. How's she doing?Willow wears the papoose on his back. Madmartiganlooks in at the baby's face. MADMARTIGAN She's doing a lot better than we are, Peck.Willow and Madmartigan laugh, which breaks the tension.Then a geiser of steam hisses near them and a batscreeches somewhere and the tension's back. They keepgoing.INT. DEEPER IN THE CAVEHot liquid drips from the ceiling. Hissing steam bub-bles from the floor. they go single-file along a ledgeover a foaming lava pit. Raziel is squawking way aheadin the distance. MADMARTIGAN Willow...this may be a bad time to ask this question but...what if Raziel's wrong? WILLOW She can't be wrong. She's a very very very powerful sorceress. MADMARTIGAN She's a bird, Willow. WILLOW That's my fault, not hers. I've got to keep practicing. I'm still in the learning stage but magic, Madmartigan, requires concentration and-- MADMARTIGAN Watch it! WILLOW Ahhh!Madmartigan lunges and grabs Willow just as he is aboutto fall into the lava pit. He hauls him to safety.They gasp with relief. Then they head deeper into thecave. They stop. They hear something. Somethingstrange.Then, something moves on the wall. WILLOW I hate this.The cave walls come to life. Down them crawl ugly ROCKPUFFERS, pillow-sized wall crabs that screech horriblylike bats. Madmartigan fights them off with his sword.The Rock Puffers bloat themselves up, tripling theirsize. Madmartigan stabs one and it hisses away like anuntied balloon.Suddenly, distant hoofbeats thunder and echo. Madmar-tigan flashes his sword and turns around, ready to de-fend Willow and the baby against the army. MADMARTIGAN Go, Willow! Run! Run!Willow listens as the hoofbeats get louder and louder.At last he turns and runs deeper into the cave. Mad-martigan waits.The Nockmaar soldiers, now increased to eighty, comecharging down the cave. Kael rides in the lead along-side the turncoat Cuth. As they gallop along theledge, Cuth makes the mistake of crowding Kael, who an-grily elbos him, horse and all, into the boiling pit.The army tramples over the Rock Puffers, which explodeunderfoot. Madmartigan braces himself as they stampedetoward him. But suddenly the horseman all screechthir horses to a halt. The horses rear and back away.Madmartigan stands there, wondering. Then suddenly ashadow looms behind him. He turns.The EBORSISK roars and the cave shakes and thunders.It's an enormous two-headed monster that doesn't likevisitors. MADMARTIGAN Willow! Willow!He looks around frantically. Willow is nowhere to beseen. Then the baby cries out. Madmartigan sees them,cowering behind a rock. He runs toward them. TheEborsisk exhales flames over his head. KAEL Go after them!Soldiers obey Kael and go after Madmartigan. He fightsthem, hacking down a few, while a few others are in-cinerated by the Eborsisk. Sorsha's horse rears as shewatches Madmartigan battle for his life. Archers shootarrows, which pierce the Eborsisk and make it even an-grier.Willow digs one of his magic acorns out of his pocket.A head of the Eborsisk gnashes at Madmartigan. Madmar-tigan looks to Willow for help. MADMARTIGAN Hurry, Willow! Throw it!Willow winds up and throws with all his might. TheEborsisk blasts a flame, which startles Willow, wreck-ing his aim. Madmartigan's eyes pop open and he ducksas the acorn whistles by his ear. The acorn bouncesoff a rock and flies back, trickles along the groundand hits a Nockmaar soldier, who is already dead. Thesoldier's body turns to stone. RAZIEL Look out!One of the Eborsisk's heads lunges toward the baby.Raziel dives like a rocket and attacks the monster'seye as Willow whisks the baby away.Then Madmartigan leaps up on the Eborsisk. He climbsup over its flaming head and drives his sword downthrough its skull. The Eborsisk howls horribly and itswounded head falls. Madmartigan topples down its backand leaps onto a horse, knocking its rider off and, allin one swashbuckling move, scooping Willow and the babyup onto the back of the horse and galloping away. KAEL After them!!But as his horsement charge forward, the Eborsisk fallsto its knees, half-dead. The surviving head blasts thesoldiers with fire. They rear back on their horses andcontinue to battle the monster with arrows and spears.EXT. CAVE - TIR ASLEEN - DAYThey ride out of the mouth of the dark cave into a lushvalley of flowers. In the distance stands the beau-tiful CASTLE OF TIR ASLEEN. Raziel zooms up out of thecave an flies above them as they gallop fullspeed to-ward it. She soars higher and higher and flies rightover the castle wall.EXT. TIR ASLEEN CASTLE - DAYThe door of the castle is half open. Madmartigan andWillow gallop inside.INT. TIR ASLEEN - DAYRaziel flies down to meet them as they ride into thecastle courtyard. A haunting wind drones amont TWELVEPILLARS which look like stone from a distance. RAZIEL Tir Asleen. WILLOW There's nobody here.They approach the twelve pillars. RAZIEL The Knights of the Pacalcade. The king's bravest warriors.Suddenly they hear hoofbeats and a warcry.EXT. TIR ASLEEN - DAYKael and his army charge out of the cave and trampleacross the valley of flowers.INT. TIR ASLEENMadmartigan rushes to the heavy door and strains toshut it. RAZIEL Turn them back, Willow!Willow stares at the twelve knights. WILLOW How?? RAZIEL Use the philosopher's stone! Hur- ry! Invocation! Release them!The castle door is rusted and old. madmartigan heavesagainst it. Outside he can see the army storming to-ward him.Willow digs out his philosopher's stone. He squintsand strains, concentrating his energy. WILLOW Beings within, beings without! Danu danu walkail funfawtha!He continues to chant and to concentrate. One of theknights comes to life. WILLOW I did it! Madmartigan! Come here! Look! You gotta see this! I did it! RAZIEL More! More!Madmartigan heaves the door shut just as the armycharges up, and he locks it with a huge bolt.EXT. TIR ASLEEN - DAYThe Nockmaar horsemen rear back form the locked door. KAEL Assault! Scale the walls!He sends his men in all directions. They leap offtheir horses and hack down trees from the nearby woods.INT. TIR ASLEENWillow brings the knights to life, one by one. WILLOW Tuatha tuatha danu!Each knight shakes himself into action. Madmartiganfollows them in an armory. WILLOW Raziel! I transformed them all! I'm a magician! RAZIEL You didn't transform them, Willow, you released them. That was noth- ing. Now change me.Willow's on a roll. He rubs his hands together. WILLOW I feel like I could do anything!He drops to his knees and stretches his philosopher'sstone apart like an accordian.EXT. TIR ASLEEN - ARMORYMadmartigan and the knights grab weapons and armor.Two knights wheel a catapult out ot the battlements.Madmartigan wees, displayed specially on a rack, a com-plete set of armor of shining silver. He reaches outto touch it. KNIGHT It belonged to our king.INT. TIR ASLEEN - COURTYARDThe knights light a fire and boil vats of oil. Willowstruggles to transform Raziel, trying to remember allhe has learned. WILLOW Capture the enery...limitless power of the will...avvdachh doth indicht rredd baerkinhaekin!Raziel begins to change. From a bird, she expands,stretches, and turns into a GOAT. WILLOW Raziel? Is that you? Oh-oh. What happened?Raziel tilts her goat head. RAZIEL I hate this.Suddenly flaming arrows rain down over the castle wall.Willow scoops up the baby and he and Raziel run for cover.EXT. TIR ASLEENFrom their horses Kael and Sorsha watch as the soldiersclimb the wall. They suddenly hear a hacking noiseabove and several Nockmaar men tumble down the ladders.Sorsha looks up.High on the wall stands Madmartigan, magnificentlydressed in the glimmering armor of the King!Kael roars and points his deadly sword up at Madmarti-gan. Then several soldiers attack the castle door witha huge battering ram and smash it open. KAEL Attack!!Kael and Sorsha gallop into the castle with otehr Nock-maar horsemen, while Madmartigan continues to battleattackers on the castle wall.INT. TIR ASLEENWillow looks up as the horsemen charge into the court-yeard. He makes a run for the hallway. SIX HORSEMENchase after him, jumping off their horses and drawingtheir swords.Sorsha dismounts, draws a sword, and strides up thestairs toward teh top of the wall.INT. ARMORYWillow runs into the armory and sets the baby down in acorner. The six horsement run in and corner him. Hegrabs an enormous broadsword. Swings it like a base-ball bat. The momentum of the heavy sword hurls Willowacross the room. The blade pierces a Nockmaar man.Willow grunts and yanks the sword out. The remainingsoldiers come after him. Willow swings and flashes thesword as they close in on him.EXT. TIR ASLEENIn the courtyard, Raziel the goat butts a few soldiersas the battle rages.UP ON THE WALLMadmartigan stabs a minion and sends him hurtlin downthe wall. Then he turns around. Five more enemyswordsmen slash at him. Madmartigan is amazing: spin-nig, lunging, ducking, he takes out one, two, three,four of them with ease. But not the fifth.It's the Nockmaar Lieutenant. He and Madmartiganswordfight. The Lieutenant hacks the sword out ofMadmartigan's hand: it clatters down into the court-yeard.Madmartigan throws up his arm. The Lieutenant's swordclangs against his wrist armor, knocking Madmartiganonto his back. With two hands the Lieutenant lifts hissword high and goes to kill Madmartigan. madmartiganshuts his eyes. But nothing happens.Madmartigan opens his eyes. the Lieutenant standsthere, frozen, staring at him. Then falls forward.Rolls over Madmartigan. And plummets off teh wall. Inhis place stands Sorsha, holding a bloodied sword. MADMARTIGAN Sorsha. SORSHA Madmartigan.He props himself up on his elbows and smiles. MADMARTIGAN Whose side are you on?She reaches down and pulls Madmartigan to his feet. SORSHA Yours.They look into each other's eyes. They go to embrace. MINION Arrrggghhh!Out of nowhere a Nockmaar minion attacks them, hissword flashing over his head. Sorhsa hardly moves.She simply dusts him off the wall with her sword. Sheturns back to Madmartigan. SORSHA I love you.Their armor clanks as they throw their arms around eachother and kiss, high up on the castle wall.INT. TIR ASLEEN - COURTYARDKael looks up from his horse. KAEL Sorsha!!He sees Sorsha and Madmartigan coming down the wall,fighting Nockmaar troops. Kael holds up his greathand. In it he holds the baby. KAEL Bordak!Kael waves his men after Sorsha and Madmartigan. KAEL Kill them both!He laughs viciously then gallops toward the castledoor. As he reaches it he abruptly stops.EXT. TIR ASLEENTwo hundred HORSEMEN are charging straight toward Kael.Led by Airk Thaughbaer!CLOSER, riding in Airk's saddlebags, with their tinydaggers flashing, are the long-lost brownies, Teemo andRool!INT. TIR ASLEENKael stuffs the baby deep inside his tunic. KAEL Troops! To Nockmaar! Ride with me!EXT. TIR ASLEENKael and his men gallop across the valley of flowersand hack their way through Airk's army.EXT. TIR ASLEENKael and his men gallop across the valley of flowersand hack their way through Airk's army.INT. TIR ASLEENMadmartigan and Sorsha mount horses. Willow staggersout of the armory, wounded and bleeding. WILLOW I'm sorry. There were too many of them.Madmartigan scoops him up. With seven survivingknights, they ride out.EXT. TIR ASLEENMany of Kael's men fall in battle. But Kael and adozen horsemen plow through and escape into the cave.Madmartigan rides up to Airk Thaughbaer and theirhorses powerfully dance around each other. MADMARTIGAN Out for a little ride in the coun- try, Airk? AIRK Thought you might get lonely, Mad- martigan!Then they drop the bravado and clasp hands. MADMARTIGAN Thank you, friend. AIRK Let's go.They charge into the cave. The clamor of theirhoofbeats echoes and then fades to silence. The valleyis littered with fallen soldiers.Then, Raziel trots out of the castle. She clip-clopsacross the valley and follows the others to the cave.EXT. VOLCANIC MOUNTAINSIDE - DAYThe Nockmaar horsemen race out of the cave and gallopup the obsidian mountain toward the dark castle.The army of Tir Asleen thunders out of the cave in pur-suit.Arrows fire back and forth. The Tir Asleen army staysright on the enemy's tail. Willow hangs on to Madmar-tigan for dear life.Airk and Madmartigan ride side by side, perfect team-work, and cut a few Nockmaar ment down.Then Madmartigan turns and sees Sorsha ride up pasteverybody. What a rider she is! She surprises a cou-ple of Nockmaar soldiers, swordfighting as she rides,killing them both. But she can't catche Kael. He ridesahead of everyone else, whipping his horse at an in-credible speed toward the castle.The chase continues up the mountain. The Tir Asleenarmy keeps firing arrows at the enemy, or cutting themdown with their swords, until only two Nockmaar menride behind Kael. At last Kael reaches the castledrawbridge and leaps onto it as it begins to rise. Histwo remaining horsemen leap after him but fall shortand tumble into the dry craggy moat.The drawbridge shuts with a loud echoing KLUNGG! Mad-martigan and Arik screech to a halt on the brink of themoat. They look up. The castle loom, huge, dark,powerful, evil. MADMARTIGAN Sorsha! Any way in there?Sorsha rides up to his side. SORSHA No. The fortress is protected on all sides.The Tir Asleen warriors, dwarfed by the huge blackwall, look at one another with doubt and worry. AIRK Make camp! We'll assault at dawn.The army dismounts and begins to unpack supplies. Itis late in the day and shadows lengthen toward evening.INT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - LATE AFTERNOONKael carries the baby through the castle and climbs upthe gloomy narrowing stairs of the QUEEN'S TOWER. Hecomes to a large door and hesitates a moment, showingfear. Then creaks the door open.INT. QUEEN'T TOWERBAVMORDA looks up. Kael cowers, afraid of her evilpower. BAVMORDA Kael!Carved in the floor is a MAGICIAN's CIRCLE, and in thevery middle of this is a sacrificial altar made ofshining copper. Bavmorda stands over the altar, wear-ing black robes. Behind her stand two decrepit DRUIDS.Kael bows. KAEL Queen Bavmorda. I have the child.The baby squirms and cries. Seething with hate, Bav-morda reaches out her arms, then shrinks back. BAVMORDA We must start the ritual!She hears noise outside the castle. BAVMORDA Who is that? KAEL An army of rebels and traitors.Bavmorda closes her eyes, holds out her hands and feelsthe vibrations and energy around her. Psychically: BAVMORDA Where is Sorsha? KAEL She has turned against you.Bavmorda opens her eyes furiously. to her druids: BAVMORDA Purify the altar! Arrange the im- plements! I'll deal with Sorsha!The druids take the baby from Kael. Bavmorda stormsout the door.EXT. NOCKMAAR CASLTE - DUSKThe Tir Asleen rebels pitch tents and build fires.Then they feel a terrible presence and look up at thecastle wall. Amid torches and hideous minions, Bavmor-da leers down at them and laughs. BAVMORDA This is not an army!Sorsha looks up, and her mother seems to laugh right ather. Madmartigan steps forward. Seeing him in the ar-mor of the King, Bavmorda stops laughing, taken aback. RAZIEL Willow! Get out of here! Quick! Hide!Raziel suddenly butts Willow into a tent.INT. TENTWilllow tumbles into the tent and Raziel follows him. RAZIEL Get down! The ritual chant! Quick! Protect yourself! WILLOW Why? RAZIEL Just do it!Willow takes out his philosopher's stone and begins tochant.EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLEMadmartigan faces the queen. MADMARTIGAN We've come for Elora Danan! Turn her over to us!Bavmorda stabs her finger down at him. BAVMORDA You dare to challenge me? You are not warriors. You're pigs!She waves her hand, casting a horrible spell over thearmy. Madmartigan's body begins to change its shape.His armor breaks apart. He grows hideous. BAVMORDA You're all pigs!The rebel soldiers panic and run. Slowly, horribly,they all expand and contort, ripping out of their armorand clothers, casting down their weapons and shields. SORSHA Mother! No!! BAVMORDA You made your decision!Bavmorda points at Sorsha, and Sorsha, too, begins tochange. The mountainside becomes a sea of writhingflesh. Every one of the Tir Asleen army is transformedinto a pig.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DUSK Bavmorda throws open thedoor. Her druids are binding the baby in a leatherthong. BAVMORDA Begin the ritual. Now! Light the first candle.A druid lights on of THIRTEEN ENORMOUS CANDLES. Bav-morda glares up at the roof. In the middle of it is alarge circular hole showing the starlit sky. BAVMORDA Come, thunder. Come lightning. Touch this altar with your pwer. Come into my tower...Lightning flashes faintly and thunder rumbles in thedistance. Bavmorda smiles with satisfaction.A druid places teh baby on the altar. The other druidhits a loud gong, once. Bavmorda enters the Magician'sCircle. Her face contorts as she recites: BAVMORDA Dark runes, dark powers! Blend and bind, bind and blend, Universal night! And the might of Nockmaar!Magically she produces a razor-sharp knife. Lightningflashes again, getting closer.INT. TENT - NIGHTWillow is crouched on his knees, chanting with her eyesclosed. RAZIEL It's over, Willow. You did well. You protected yourself.Willow looks up. He hears the grunting outside. Withgreat trepidation, he crawls to the tent door.EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - OUTSIDE TENT - NIGHTWillow shudders in horror at the grotesque sight. Amidhorses and tents and weapons, hundreds of pigs wanderabout. Willow stands and walks through them. He looksdown at one point and sees Rool and Teemo: two tinybaby pigs. Then he turns and runs back into the tent.INT. TENT - NIGHTWillow collapses to his knees beside Raziel. WILLOW I've come all this way and now Elora Dana's going to die! RAZIEL No! I can still defeat Bavmorda! WILLOW She's too powerful, RazielRaziel sternly stamps the ground with her hoof. RAZIEL A true magician, Willow, never surrenders. She is a sorceress--I am a sorceress! Transform me now and I will destroy her! Hexagram!Willow grabs a sword and draws a hexagram around Ra-ziel. He steps outside of it, holds up hisphilosopher's stone and begins his magic. WILLOW Banish all disturbing forces from this place. Fire, water, above and below. Balance. Balance. Bal- ance.Raziel begins to change. Willow wrestles with his ownpowers of concentration and will, now and then losingstrength. RAZIEL (voice distorted) Don't give up! Willow!He chants and strains. Raziel momentarily changes intoa partly-formed grotesque creature. Then into a deer.Then she becomes human. At last she becomes herself, aonce-beautiful and now elderly woman. Willow coversher unclothed body with a simple smock. WILLOW Raziel!She looks down at her old hands. Then her eyes focuswith purpose. RAZIEL We've got a lot of work to do, Wil- low. Bring in our brave men.Willow opens the tent. Some pigs shuttle in, and Ra-ziel begins to change them back into warriors.EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE -NIGHTStationed high on the castle wall, three Nockmaar MIN-IONS laugh and drink. Then they hear the terribleSCREAM of the baby. They look up at the Queen's Tower.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - NIGHTA druid hits the ceremonial gong, twice. The babyshrieks. Standing over her, Bavmorda crushes a pieceof glass with her bare hands and drops the fragmentsinto a Witch's Bottle. BAVMORDA Black fire forever kindled within, Let the second right begin!With a pair of razor-sharp shears she clips the baby'stiny fingernails and sprinkles them into the Witch'sBottle. The bottle glows and sparks, and teh heavensasnwer with distant thunder.EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - NIGHTIn the dark Tir Asleen camp some figures crouch low andhurry from tent to tent. CLOSER, the faces of rebelwarriors, watching the castle wall. Fear.INT. TENT - NIGHTWillow, Raziel, Madmartigan, Sorsha, Airk Thaughbaerand a dozen rebel warriors argue back and forth. AIRK Uphill with our rough weapons, we'll never make it! SORSHA Elora Danan will die! RAZIEL By dawn, upon thirteen tolls of the runic drum! WARRIOR Bavmorda is too powerful. We need more forces. I say we retreat!The other warriors agree. RAZIEL Bavmorda cannot transform you. I've protected this camp with a spell. MADMARTIGAN Can you use your magic to get our men into the fortress, Raziel?Raziel shakes her head. RAZIEL Bavmorda has shielded it with a spell of her own.The warriors grumble and protest. In a corner, Rooland Teemo poke their heads in under the canvas. Curi-ously they look at Willow, who sits in silence and deepthough, scratching the ground with his fingernail.The warriors rumble. WILLOW Wait!!Willow jumps to his feet. They all turn to him. WILLOW I have an idea. Back in my village we catch a lot of hedgehogs. MADMARTIGAN Willow, this is war, not agricul- ture! WILLOW I know, I know! But this is a way to get into that castle...The all gather around Willow to listen.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - NIGHTThunder rumbles. Bavmorda looks up. Her face is gra-dually becoming more grotesque as the ritual proceeds.A druid hits the gong three times. Now three candlesare lit. The baby screams on the altar.With a demonic laugh, Bavmorda digs her hands into adeep vat of blood then raises them over her head. Theblood runs down her arms into the folds of her blackcloak.INT. TENT - NIGHTThey all look at Willow. AIRK It's too much work. WARRIOR It can't be done. SORSHA Kael will never fall for it.Willow looks hopefully at Madmartigan. MADMARTIGAN (doubtful) I don't know, Willow. WILLOW Madmartigan, you promised me you'd take care of Elora Danan like your own daughter. She is all that matters. Are you going to abandon her?Madmartigan turns away and scratches his beard. AIRK Come on, Madmartigan. you gonna listen to a Peck? You and I are warriors. You know this plan will never work.Frustrated and torn, Madmartigan brushes Airk away.The men rally with Airk. Mdmartigan goes over to Sor-sha. MADMARTIGAN We'll probably die here, Sorsha. SORSHA I have no family.The gong rings four time. Raziel turns to Airkand his men. RAZIEL If we do not fight, and the baby dies, all hope for the future is lost. I shall face the danger alone if I have to.The men shake their heads. WILLOW Me, too.Madmartigan, still torn by indecision, raises his armand silences the protest. MADMARTIGAN Time is running out. We must now decide who's going to leave and who is going to stay...EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - NIGHTLight pulsates in the Queen's Tower.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - NIGHTThe druids cower behind Bavmorda, whose face has takenon the hideous features of a hellish beast. The babyhas been streaked with ritual paint. BAVMORDA Ocht veth nockkthirth bordak!Her voice growls a sickening chant, and light shootsout of her claw-liek fingers, enveloping the baby. Thebaby levitates above the altar in a cocoon of light.EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAWNThe sun rises over the volcanic mountain. The gongstrikes twelve times. PAN ACROSS the slope outside thecastle. The Tir Asleen army is gone. Littered acrossthe ground are flattened tents, borken wagons an dis-carded shields. The wind howls, taking bits of debriswith it.Alone on the deserted mounatinside stand Willow and Rz-ziel. RAZIEL Time is running out. WILLOW Surrender!!Nockmaar soldiers peer down and laugh. Willow and Ra-ziel trek closer to the castle wall. Willow cups hismouth. WILLOW We are all-powerful magicians! Give us the baby or we will destroy you!!The Nockmaar soldiers roar with laughter. KAEL Kill them!The great drawbridge falls across the moat. Willowclutches a spear and trembles nervously. RAZIEL Patience, Willow. WILLOW Courage, Willow.Hoofbeats. EIGHT HORSEMEN ride out of the castle withswords high. Willow lifts his spear with two hands.Turns. And smashes the spear on the ground, striking aloud war drum!Suddenly Madmartigan leaps out of the ground on horse-back!And the entire mountainside comes to life. Tents andshields fly away and out of pits and trenches the TirAsleen army charges with one loud warcry!The eight Nockmaar horsemen are quickly cut down. Therebels storm across the drawbridge into the castle.Airk Thaughbaer scoops Willow up on his horse, and Sor-sha scoops Raziel up on hers.INT. NOCKMAAR COURTYARD - CONTINUOUSMadmartigan leads the assault, cutting down Nockmaarminions as they run out to defend the fortress. Sorshaslides off her horse with Raziel. Airk sets Willowdown. Sorsha leads Willow and Raziel into a dark hall-way.Rebel warriors storm into the courtyard. Madmartigancircles behind Airk, their horses dancing handsomely. AIRK Let's squah 'em!In unison, their swords flash and they charge acrossthe courtyard chopping down the enemy.ENT CASTLE HALLWAY - DAYSorsha hurries Willow and Raziel down a dark hallway.They come to a corner. SORSHA No, Willow!!She grabs him by the collar and yanks him back. A hugeDEATH DOG leaps out wiht a gnashing ROAR and Sorshakills it with her sword. Willow sags with relief andthe women grab his hands and haul him further down thetunnel.INT. TOWER STAIRWAY - DAYThey come to the gloomy stairs that corkscrew up intothe Queen's Tower. Willow climbs nervously behind Ra-ziel and Sorsha. At the top in THE DOOR. Light throbsbehind it.Suddenly they hear a loud SHRIEK and the door shakesand bangs. Willow fals to his knees, frozen withfear. SORSHA I will face my mother alone.Willow and Raziel stay back on the stairs. Sorshaclimbs to the door. Courageously, she opens it.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAYBavmorda's monstrous face FILLS THE SCREEN. BAVMORDA Sorsha!!Sorsha recoils in horror. Bavmorda looks barely human:she has transformed into a grotesque witch. She wavesher gnarled hand and her druids attack Sorsha. Sorshakills them. The baby lies under a deathlike spell onthe copper altar. SORSHA I won't let you kill her!Bavmorda's voice is a demonic growl! BAVMORDA You are a weakling. Like you fa- ther! Can you not see that I am about to become all-powerful!Lightning explodes overhead. Sorsha lunges for thebaby. But Bavmorda stops her with a powerful energyforce. SORSHA No!!Pulsating light lifts Sorsha, levitates her across theroom, and drives her toward a wall of spikes. Just asshe is about to be implaes, another force stops her.Bavmorda can sense the source of it: BAVMORDA Raziel...!!The door flies open. The twelve burning candles allblow out. There stands Raziel. Sorsha falls to thefloor, unconscious. Raziel raises her arms magnifi-cently. The sorceresses face each other.INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAYBattle rages. Madmartigan and Airk lead the assault,and the Tir Asleen rebels push back the Nockmaar min-ions. Down low, where weapons adn bodies fall andhorses clop and stamp, the brownies scurry along interror, arms crossed over their heads, looking forshelter.Like mice, they dart up some stairs. Then a huge bootnearly crushes them. The dive away and look up.Towering high above them, Kael lets out a loud warcry.And brandishes two weapons, a huge sword and a hugeaxe.Madmartigan and Airk turn and see Kael. They look ateach other. Like samurai warriors they stand ready.Kael ralles his weapons and charges toward them.INT. TOWER STAIRWAY - DAYWillow creeps toward the door. It suddenly throbs andflashes. He jumps back.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAYBavmorda and Raziel oppose each otehr, circling the al-tar. The air between them crackles and sparks with theconcentration of energy between them. RAZIEL The baby will be queen. It has been foretold, Bavmorda. BAVMORDA My ritual will kill the prophecy! Now the child dies with it, its en- ergy exiled into oblivion! (lightning flashes) You see? I hold the power of the universe! RAZIEL Not until your ritual is complete! BAVMORDA And who will stop me? The elements are slaves to my command!She points at the sky. As if oberying her, lightningflashes and thunder cracks. RAZIEL There is no one who can match your sorcery. Except me!Raziel waves her arms and light suddenly swirls aroundthe room. Bavmorda counters, and chairs come to life,turning into beasts. Objects fly about. The tower be-comes a storm of chaos and witchcraft.INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAYKael swings his axe and sword at Airk and Madmartigan.He roars at his army, and six Nockmaar swordsmen hurryover to fight with him. Madmartigan and Airk split up.Madmartigan battles the six swordsmen. Airk battlesKael, who backs Airk up stairs on the castle wall.Madmartigan fights in the courtyard. He hears a yelland looks up. Kael strikes Airk down. MADMARTIGAN Airk!!Airk falls down the stairs. Madmartigan finishes offthe swordsmen, then runs to him, grabs his bleedingbody. MADMARTIGAN Airk! Airk! MADMARTIGAN Madmartigan...you're a brave warrior...a true friend...a good man... MADMARTIGAN We're gonna win this war, Airk.An incredible smile lights up Airk's face as he dies.Madmartigan stands. Picks up his sword. And goes upthe stairs after Kael.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAYThe sorceress continue their battle. They changeeach other into various beasts. They fight, physicallyand magically.In the midst of chaos, the door opens. Willow pokes inhis head, reacting in fear. Then sneaks around thewall of the room and makes a dash for the baby. BAVMORDA As above, so below! Universe of evil, Raziel! It conquers even you!Bavmorda hurls a final spell at Raziel, crippling her,throwing her into a corner. Bavmorda laughs and goesto the altar. The baby is gone.Willow races toward the door with the baby. The doorsuddenly slams shut. Bavmorda's voice roars out: BAVMORDA *Stop! Bring back that child!!!*Willow stops. He turns around. Bavmorda towers overhim, grotesque, monstrous, poised to destroy Willowwith her magic. BAVMORDA Who are you? WILLOW I'm Willow Ufgood. I'm a magician.Bavmorda laughs. Willopw slowly walks toward her. hedigs into his pocket. Takes out the last magic acorn. WILLOW I'm a *great* magician.Willow throws the acorn at Bavmorda. Her hand shootsout and catches it. the acron begins to turn her tostone, petrifying her hand, her wrist, her arm. Willowbacks away, feeling successful. But with intense con-centration of her evil will, Bavmorda fights off theacron's spell. It reverses: her arm, wrist and handturn back to flesh. She crushes the acorn in herfingers and lets the dust fall to the floor. BAVMORDA Is that the extent of your power?Willow stands there helplessly. Thunder cracks andlightning flashes through the open ceiling above thealtar.INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAYThe Tir Asleen rebels, outnumbering and overpoweringthe Nockmaar army, fight toward ultimate victory.Madmartigan battles Kael on the wall outside theQueen's Tower. Up and up they go. A spectacularswordfight. Until finally, Madmartigan stabs Kaelthrough the heart. kael screeches and falls throughthe air into the moat.Madmartigna hurries toward the top of the tower.INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAYBavmorda looks up at the sky then down at Willow. BAVMORDA Place it on the altar. WILLOW No. You can't have her. BAVMORDA By ritual, by sorcery, I well draw the lightning and send this child into the destructive realm.Willow straightens up, boldly, courageously. WILLOW And with my magic I'll send her into the...into the...He gropes for a word. Bavmorda laughs at him. BAVMORDA You're no magician. WILLOW Into the good.Bavmorda instantly stops laughing. her eyes flash. BAVMORDA Even I don't have the power to do that. You're a fraud.Willow suddenly starts chanting, loudly and desperate-ly. Raziel opens her eyes and watches. The chentingconfuses Bavmorda. Then, Willow cleverly whips thebaby under his legs and behind his back and suddenlyshe's gone! BAVMORDA Impossible! Bordak! Bordak!Bavmorda flies into a rage. She lunges across thecopper altar. Thunder and lightning! BAVMORDA Aaaaahhhh!!!A bright fork of lightning, conjured by her own evil,shoots in through the ceiling and strikes her. Shehowls in pain. Her body contorts then bursts intoflame and burns into a shriveling pillar of ash.Madmartigan breaks open the door and stomrs in. Hescoops up Sorsha, reviving her with a kiss.And as if Bavmorda's death has ended evil and oppres-sion, Raziel stands up with renewed strength. RAZIEL Willow...Willow...how...how did you do that?Willow bends down under a nearby chair and picks up thesleeping baby. WILLOW It was just the old disappearing pig trick.Elora Danan's eyes open. And sunlight floods into thetower.EXT. TIR ASLEEN - DAYFlags fly hihg above the wondrous caslte. The valleyis lush with flowers, and the kingdom is once abainalive with happy activity.At the door of the castle, Willow stnds beside a cutelittle white pony. The court of Tir Asleen has gath-ered to see him off. Madmartigan, in robes and armorworthy of a king, stands proudly beside his queen, Sor-sha, who holds the baby princess, Elora Danan.A trumpet blares. Raziel comes forward from inside thecastle, dressed in druid robes, carrying a sacred BOOK. RAZIEL Willow Ufgood. Take this Book of Sorcery. You are on your way to becoming a great magician.Willow accepts the book. Everyone applauds. Willowsmiles gratefully and humbly. He glances down and no-tices Rool and Teemo, who have been civilized to a de-gree with page boy uniforms, fuzzy haircuts, and niftylittle swords.Madmartigan and Sorsha come forward, with Elora Danan. WILLOW Your dream has come true, madmarti- gan.Madmartigan smiles with thanks. MADMARTIGAN Goodbye, Peck.Willow has one last look at the baby. She smiles andgiggles at him. He happily gives her a kiss. WILLOW Farewell, Elora Danan.Suddenly Willow flies up in the air. Madmartigan liftshim onto the pony's back. Willow and Madmartigan shakehands warmly. And Willow rides across the valley offlowers, everybody waving goodbye to him.EXT. NELWYN VILLAGE - DAYMusicians stike up a welcoming march. Willow ridesthorugh his village on his little pony, proudly carry-ing the sacred book. The Nelwyn people swarm aroundhim, wild with excitement and celebration. Meegoshruns up, deliriously happy.The High Aldwin comes forward, beaming with pride, andhonors Willow with a nod of approval. Willow presentshim with the book. Old Burglekutt peers out. Hismouth drops open and he shrinks away from the crowd. KIAYA Willow!!Willow stands up in his stirrups. He sees Kiaya fight-ing her way through the crowd to reach him. WILLOW Kiaya!!He jumps off his pony and runs to her. They collide,kiss and embrace. Then Ranon and Mims jump on theirfather and hug him. Family and friends smother theirhomecoming hero with love! *THE END*