					GLADIATOR					by				David Franzoni			Revised by John Logan								SECOND DRAFT								October 22, 1998		"While stands the Colosseum, Rome shall stand.		When falls the Colosseum, Rome shall fall.		And when Rome falls -- the World."							ByronFADE IN:EXT.  FOREST - DAYGermania.  The far reaches of the Roman Empire.Winter 180 A.D.Incongruously enough, the first sound we hear is abeautiful tenor voice.  Singing.  A boy's voice.CREDITS as we hear the haunting song float through denseforests.  We finally come to a rough, muddy road slashingthrough the forest.  On the road a GERMAN PEASANT FATHERis herding along three sickly looking cows.  His two SONSare with him.  His youngest son sits on one of the cowsand sings a soft, plaintive song.They become aware of another sound behind them on the road-- the creak of wood, the slap of metal on leather.  TheFather immediately leads his cattle and his sons off theroad.  They stand-still, eyes down:  the familiar postureof subjugated peoples throughout history.A wagon train rumbles past them.  Three ornate wagonsfollowed by a mounted cohort of fifty heavily-armedPRAETORIAN GUARDS.The young boy dares to glance up at the passing Romans.His eyes burn with hatred.INT.  WAGON - DAYMist momentarily obscures a man's face.  Frozen breath.The man is in his 20's, imperious and handsome.  He isswathed in fur, only his face exposed.  He is COMMODUS.He glances up.					COMMODUS		Do you think he's really dying?The woman across from him returns his gaze evenly.  She isslightly older, beautiful and patrician.  A formidablewoman.She is LUCILLA.					LUCILLA		He's been dying for ten years.					COMMODUS		I think he's really dying this time.A beat.  Their breath turns instantly to mist.					COMMODUS		He has to be bled every night now.					LUCILLA		How do you know that?					COMMODUS		I've been so informed.She arches an eyebrow.					COMMODUS		If he weren't really dying he		wouldn't have sent for us.					LUCILLA			(a smile)		Maybe he just misses us.					COMMODUS		And the Senators.  He wouldn't have		summoned them if --					LUCILLA		Peace, Commodus.  After two weeks on		the road your incessant scheming is		hurting my head.A beat.					COMMODUS		The first thing I shall do is honor		him with games worthy of his		majesty.					LUCILLA		The first thing I shall do is have a		hot bath.The wagon rumbles to a halt.  Voices are heard outside.Commodus leaps out...EXT.  WAGON - OUTPOST - DAYThree Roman SOLDIERS guard an outpost, a watchtower, onthe roadside.					COMMODUS		Why have we stopped?					PRAETORIAN GUARD MEMBER		We're here, sir.					COMMODUS			(to Soldier #1)		Where is my father?					SOLDIER #1		He's at the front, sir.					COMMODUS		Is the battle won?					SOLDIER #1		Don't know, sir.  They've been gone		for eight days.Commodus tosses off his furs -- beneath them he wears abeautiful set of Lorica Segmentata -- the traditionalformed armor of Rome.  He moves to a horse as:					COMMODUS			(to Soldier #1)		My sister wants a bath, take her to		the camp.			(to Soldier #2)		Take me to my father.He leaps onto the horse and canters back to the PraetorianGuard unit.Soldier #2 climbs on his horse and leads them.  Commodusrides off with most of the Praetorian Guard unit.Lucilla peeks her head from the wagon.  She glances at theremaining soldiers.  Distinctly unpromising.					LUCILLA			(dry)		Civilization at last.  Gods preserve		us.EXT.  HILL - TWILIGHTThe mighty catapults dwarf the humans.  Soldiers from theelite Felix Regiment -- a legion of the Roman Army -- haulthe monstrous machines up a hill.The commanding General of the Felix Regiment, MAXIMUS,walks between two of the catapults.  He is a striking andintense man in his 30's.  Like all the soldiers whosurround him, he is caked with mud and exhausted.He trudges up the hill with his two lieutenants, TITUS andQUINTUS.					TITUS		You would do as well to read the		mind of a rhinoceros.					QUINTUS		These barbarians would rather drown		in blood than yield an inch.  If I		didn't hate them so much I would		admire them.They have reached the top of the hill.  Stunning martialpreparations are underway.  The catapults join ten others.Archers are taking up position.  Brutal "Scorpions" --devices for firing multiple crossbow bolts -- are beingloaded.  Soldiers are also loading the catapults withenormous "Greek fire pots" -- large, round terra cottapots.Maximus and his lieutenants gaze down from the hilltop.Below them they can see a German encampment.					TITUS		They simply will not surrender.A beat as Maximus gazes down at the German position.					MAXIMUS			(quietly)		A people should know when they are		conquered.A beat.					MAXIMUS		At the first signal release the		catapults.  We'll use the cavalry to		cut off the retreat.					QUINTUS		General, I don't recommend that.		Our cavalry might be caught in the		flames.					MAXIMUS		I hope not, because I'm going to be		leading them.A beat as he gazes down at the enemy.					MAXIMUS		Why don't they know they're already		dead?EXT.  TREES - TWILIGHTMaximus and Titus are on their horses, the cavalry of twohundred Felix Regiment warriors surrounds them.  Steamflares from their horses' nostrils.  They wait in a thickstand of trees -- the German position can be seen across amuddy plain.A large wolf -- "The Wolf of Rome" -- waits at Maximus'side.Maximus nods to an archer.  The archer lights the tip ofan arrow and sends it flaming into the night sky.EXT.  HILLTOP - TWILIGHTQuintus waits.  The catapults are loaded and waiting.  Sotoo the Scorpions.  So too the 200 archers of the FelixRegiment.He sees the flaming arrow flying up from below.					QUINTUS		Now!The mighty catapults are released.  The Greek fire potsarc dramatically through the air.  A moment later soldiersrelease the Scorpions and hundreds of bolts streak throughthe sky.  The archers fire a murderous barrage of flamingarrows.EXT.  TREES - TWILIGHTThe screaming is almost immediate.Maximus and his cavalry watch as the fire pots crash downinto the German encampment.EXT.  GERMAN CAMP - TWILIGHTThe fire pots shatter -- pitch splashes everywhere --seconds later the bolts and flaming arrows slice down andignite the pitch -- FLAME EXPLODES -- it is a hellish,napalm-like vision -- the conflagration illuminating thetwilight.The deadly rain of flaming arrows spreads terror throughthe German camp --EXT.  TREES - TWILIGHTMaximus watches the German camp.					MAXIMUS			(to his men)		Hold steady... steady...He can see the nightmare destruction of the encampmentcontinuing -- fire pots and Scorpion bolts and flamingarrows -- panic in the German encampment.					MAXIMUS		Steady...He sees the Germans begin fleeing across the plain.  Hequickly raises his sword and whispers a prayer, then turnsto his men:					MAXIMUS		Brothers -- I salute you!  For Rome!He spurs his horse and races out of the trees to theplain...EXT.  PLAIN - BATTLEGROUND - TWILIGHTMaximus leads the terrifying and relentless cavalry charge-- Titus at his side -- the Felix Regiment screams outfearsome war cries as they gallop across the muddy plaintoward the Germans --Fire pots and flaming arrows are crashing down everywherearound them --The cavalry SLAMS into the Germans at full gallop --It is carnage.The Felix Regiment warriors slash ruthlessly with shortswords -- slicing a path of sheer destruction through theGermans -- but the Germans fight with equal brutality --and the Germans also fight with the desperation of ahopeless last chance -- they pull and spear Roman soldiersoff horses whenever they can --Maximus spins his horse and swings his sword with expertefficiency -- a spear stabs through the neck of his horseand it immediately collapses forward --Maximus sails over the horse's head and crashes to themuddy ground -- he jumps up and is in the midst of thebattle --The flaming arrows and exploding fire pots create aferocious inferno everywhere around the battle -- theflames silhouetting the fighting --On the ground, Maximus proves his absolute worth as awarrior -- he hacks and dodges -- ghastly images of trueancient warfare -- Maximus' eyes burn with a zealous fireas he fights for his life --He finds he is momentarily at a terrible disadvantage --Germans are surrounding him from all sides -- as he fightshe looks for an advantage -- for his soldiers -- foranything -- he is doomed --Then -- an almost mystical image -- Maximus' wolf leapsthrough a wall of flame --"The Wolf of Rome" savages several Germans around Maximus-- giving him the help he needed.The wolf and his master fight, side-by-side.EXT.  HILLTOP - TWILIGHTWe see an old man's face, staring down at the battle.  Theface is weather-beaten, ailing.  The roaring flames fromthe battlefield below flicker in his sad eyes.MARCUS AURELIUS, the Emperor of Rome, is on a horse.  Ametal brace extends from the back of his saddle.  He isstrapped to the brace with thick, leather straps.He watches as the Felix Regiment below concludes thebattle.  The cheering of the Regiment can be heard as thefinal, isolated pockets of Germans are cut down.Behind Marcus the sun is setting, painting the world bloodred.EXT.  BATTLEFIELD - SUNSETMaximus, bloody and spent, walks through the aftermath ofthe carnage.  The Wolf of Rome is at his side.  Dead anddying by the hundreds are scattered everywhere.  Romansurgeons are attending to the wounded.Marcus walks to him, embraces him warmly.					MAXIMUS		Caesar.					MARCUS		Maximus, you prove your valor again.		Let us hope for the final time here.					MAXIMUS		I don't think there's anyone left to		fight.					MARCUS		There are always people left to		fight...Marcus takes Maximus' arm and they walk through the massesof bodies.  Maximus holds Marcus' arm firmly, quietlysupporting him as they walk.					MARCUS		But this night, at least, Germania		is at last defeated... What will you		do now, my friend?					MAXIMUS		Should Caesar permit, I'll go home.		I've been away too long.  I've		forgotten my wife's face and I		barely know my son.Suddenly, a tethered GERMAN PRISONER they are passingcalls out to them:					GERMAN PRISONER		THIS BLOOD MEANS NOTHING, CONQUEROR!Maximus and Marcus stop.  A soldier moves quickly tosilence the German Prisoner.					MARCUS			(to Soldier)		Stop...			(to Prisoner)		... You speak our language?					GERMAN PRISONER		You have been in my homeland for		twelve years.  Of course I speak		your language.  So did my son, who		you murdered.  So did my daughter,		who you raped.					MAXIMUS			(to Marcus)		Come, Caesar...					MARCUS		No.  Let him speak...			(to Prisoner)		... I am Rome, what would you say to		me?					GERMAN PRISONER			(points to sunset)		You are that sun, Rome, and your		time is over... You can slit a		thousand throats here, and you can		put a thousand babies to the sword,		but it will always be our home.					MARCUS		Now it is Rome.					GERMAN PRISONER		It will never be Rome.  Not as long		as one German breathes.The soldier moves to kill the insolent Prisoner.					MARCUS		No... Release him.  Give him safe		passage.  Let him go to his family.The soldier leads the German Prisoner away.Maximus and Marcus continue walking in silence for a beat.Then:					MARCUS		Tell me again, Maximus, why are we		here?					MAXIMUS		For the glory of the empire, sire.					MARCUS			(quietly)		Yes.  I remember.They continue walking through the mountains of bodies...EXT.  ROAD - SUNSETMaximus and Marcus are now walking along a road throughthe dense forest.  Slaves follow behind them, leadingtheir horses.Both sides of the road are filled with the men of theFelix Regiment.  As Maximus and Marcus pass, the batteredand bloody soldiers drag themselves to their feet, raisingtheir swords, paying silent homage.					MAXIMUS		They honor you, Caesar.					MARCUS		I don't think they're standing for		me, Maximus.  They honor you.Just then Commodus canters into view with his PraetorianGuard escort.  He watches the army honor Maximus with rankenvy as he nears.He rides up to Maximus and Marcus.					COMMODUS		Have I missed it?He leaps from his horse.					COMMODUS		Have I missed the battle?					MARCUS		You've missed the war.  We're done		here.Commodus embraces him, awkward.					COMMODUS		Father.  Congratulations.  I shall		sacrifice a thousand doves to honor		your triumph.					MARCUS		Spare the doves and honor Maximus,		he won the battle.Commodus embraces Maximus, even more awkward.					COMMODUS		General, Rome salutes you and I		embrace you as a brother.					MAXIMUS		Highness.They walk, Maximus still supporting Marcus, as:					COMMODUS		Your Spaniards seem invincible.  May		the Gods favor the Felix Regiment		now and always...			(to his father)		Here, Father, take my arm.					MARCUS			(ignores this)		Where's your sister?					COMMODUS		She's at the camp.  She had no		desire to see the gore of the		battlefield.					MARCUS			(smiles)		Lucilla would eat every corpse here		if it brought her one step closer to		the throne.Maximus laughs.					MAXIMUS			(smiles)		Caesar, you do the lady injustice.					MARCUS		It's a foolish old cobra who doesn't		recognize his own off-spring...			(he suddenly stops,			not feeling well)		I think... I should ride now.Maximus waves for Marcus' horse.  It is brought up.Several soldiers carefully help the old man into thesaddle.  He is then tethered to the brace on his saddle.It is a slow, graceful and embarrassing ordeal for theEmperor of Rome.When at last he is strapped in, he looks to Maximus.					MARCUS		So much for the glory of Rome.Without a word to his son, Marcus nods and the horse isslowly lead away.Commodus and Maximus watch him go.					COMMODUS			(neutral)		He's dying.A beat.					COMMODUS		Poor old man.					MAXIMUS			(terse)		If you'll excuse me, Highness.He turns and stalks away.EXT.  TENT CITY - NIGHTWe see the Roman encampment, a sea of tents.  Hundreds ofcampfires burn before the tents.INT.  HOSPITAL TENT - NIGHTMaximus enters a large tent and is met by a spectacle ofthe dead and dying.  Roman surgeons are working feverishlyto save lives.  Limbs are amputated, the bloody stumpsquickly cauterized with hot irons.  Leeches and bronzecups are employed for blood-letting to balance "humours."Anesthesia as we know it is nonexistent.  Wine amphorasare passed around and orderlies fan narcotic smoke towardthe patients.  Mostly, though, they just hold down thewrithing patients.Maximus moves through the tent, offering a word of comforthere and there.  All the wounded are delighted to see him.He goes to an older soldier, GALLUS, who has one woodenhand.  His other hand is bandaged.					MAXIMUS		What, Gallus, losing your other		hand?					GALLUS		Aye, General, they're going to make		a bronze one for it.  Long fingers		this time.					MAXIMUS		And the women of your village will		crave your touch even more.					GALLUS		Ah, then you know the women of my		village.Maximus smiles and moves on.He stops at a young soldier, VALERIUS, whose head has beenshaved.  A hole has been bored into his skull to relievethe pressure on his brain.  The young soldier is dying.					MAXIMUS		What's your name, son?					VALERIUS		Valerius, General.					MAXIMUS		The name suits you.					VALERIUS		Why am I dying?A beat.  Maximus sits by his cot.  He takes Valerius'hand.					MAXIMUS		You're dying because you love Rome,		as I do.					VALERIUS		I've never been to Rome.					MAXIMUS		Neither have I.  Rome for us lives		here...			(he touches his			heart)		... it's a thing inside us that came		from our ancestors and that we give		to our children.					VALERIUS		It must be glorious, Rome.  I've		only seen pictures.  Is it a		glorious place?A beat.					MAXIMUS		Yes, it's a glorious place.					VALERIUS		It must be.He smiles.  And he is dead.Maximus sits for a moment.  He gently closes Valerius'eyes.  And Maximus finds that he is weeping.He is not ashamed of the tears.INT.  MESS TENT - NIGHTAn immediate swirl of noise.  The grand mess tent iscrowded with soldiers.  They are still filthy with caked-on mud and blood.  Wounds are bandaged and tankards areraised in celebration of the victory.Marcus sits in a central position and receives visitors.Currently two Senators, FALCO and GAIUS, are bowing beforehim.					FALCO		Hail, Marcus Aurelius.					MARCUS		Stand up, Senators.  That unfamiliar		posture doesn't suit you.					GAIUS		We live in supplication to your		glory.					MARCUS		All the while conspiring with that		fat man in Rome.  How is the old		monster?					GAIUS		Senator Gracchus is hale, sire.					MARCUS		Still damning me to the four winds?					GAIUS		Still eager for your triumphant		return to Rome, Caesar.					MARCUS		I would have silenced him decades		ago -- but I just like him too much.Meanwhile, Maximus stands with his lieutenants, Titus andQuintus.  A wound on Maximus' arm has been bound.					MAXIMUS			(to Titus)		If you want to stay on, I support		you.  So do the men.  I'll ask the		Emperor to appoint you in my place.					TITUS		It won't be the Felix Regiment		without you.					MAXIMUS		I'll return after a season at home.		Maybe two.					QUINTUS		That means after three or four more		babies.					TITUS		And you'll be too fat from Vibia's		cooking to get on your horse by		then.					MAXIMUS		Should the Gods so bless me.  I		would be thankful.Commodus perambulates up to them.					COMMODUS		Hail, warriors.  My congratulations.					TITUS AND QUINTUS			(bowing)		Highness.					COMMODUS			(to Maximus)		My old friend, my father tells me		you're returning to Spain?					MAXIMUS		Yes.					COMMODUS		A pity.  I'll need men like you in		my army...An awkward glance between the soldiers.  This sort of talkis offensively premature.					COMMODUS		There are larger division that might		appeal to you.  Even the Praetorian		Guard.  You've never been to Rome.		Imagine arriving as head of the		Praetorians!  They have really		splendid uniforms.					MAXIMUS			(cold)		I'm going home.Senators Gaius and Falco join them.					GAIUS			(to Maximus)		... And why not apply for entry to		the Senate?					FALCO		A war hero with a handsome face and		a strong heart could go far.					COMMODUS		General Maximus, may I present		Senators Gaius and Falco.  Beware of		this Gaius, he'll pour a honeyed		potion in your ear and you'll wake		up one day and all you'll say is		"Republic, Republic, Republic..."Laughter.					FALCO		Have you never considered Rome?					MAXIMUS		No.					COMMODUS		You've had my ear since we were		children.  You could be a valuable		ally in the Senate.					GAIUS		Are you a believer in Republicanism?					COMMODUS			(laughs)		There -- I warned you.					MAXIMUS		I'm a soldier, not a politician.Meanwhile, a dark eye is studying the men through a hiddenslit in the tent wall.  The eye is particularly drawn toMaximus.					GAIUS		If your heart lies with the people,		I would back you for the Senate.		I'm sure Gracchus would as well.					COMMODUS		Not a word about that sodomite		bastard.					GAIUS			(smiles to Maximus)		The august Senator Gracchus has been		rather a gadfly on the flesh of the		imperial family.					FALCO		He's a damned provocateur.					GAIUS		He lives under the antiquated		assumption that the Senate should		represent the people with vigor.					COMMODUS		I won't tolerate it.  His incessant		criticism exhausts me.  The man can		speak for five hours without taking		a breath.					GAIUS		He serves Rome best when he serves		it with honesty.					COMMODUS			(sharply)		Enough... Maximus, I would like to		inspect the Felix Regiment at dawn.		Please arrange it.					MAXIMUS		I can't do that.					COMMODUS		Excuse me?					MAXIMUS		My men have been fighting for five		solid days.  They're too busy dying		to go on dress parade.A beat.  Commodus' eyes flash fire at this public rebuke.He very quickly gets control.					COMMODUS			(smiles)		Of course, how foolish of me.  Some		other time...He notes his father being helped out of the tent byseveral body slaves.					COMMODUS		Caesar retires early tonight.INT.  TENT CORRIDOR - NIGHTMarcus is helped out of the mess tent into a tent corridorattached.He sees his daughter Lucilla in the corridor, spying inthrough the slit in the tent wall.  He watches her,smiles.					MARCUS		If only you had been born a man...She turns to him.  He leaves his body slaves and goes toher.					LUCILLA		Father.					MARCUS		What a Caesar you would have made.					LUCILLA		You're right.					MARCUS		I think you would have been strong.		I wonder if you would have been		just?					LUCILLA		I would have been what you taught me		to be.A beat.  They stare at each other.  He finally smiles.					MARCUS		Well, pretend to be my loving		daughter tonight and walk with me to		my chamber.She smiles and takes his arm.  They slowly walk down thetent corridor as:					MARCUS		This is a pleasant fiction, isn't		it?They disappear into darkness.EXT.  TENT CITY - DAWNMaximus is slogging through the mud and snow that blanketsthe Rome camp.  He stops to observe an unusual sight.Commodus is stripped almost naked, his chiseled bodycovered in a fine sheen of sweat.  He and his sixCENTURION BODY GUARDS are going through their dailyritual.  They defy the sub-zero temperatures and hack atsmall trees with swords.It is an eerie, zen-like workout.  Commodus' intenseconcentration is unnerving.Maximus watches for a moment then moves on.  He approachesa large network of tents.  He enters.INT.  MARCUS' TENT - DAYMaximus enters Marcus' darkened tent.  Flickering braziersprovide the only light in the enormous Imperial tent.Heavy beams support the canopy and they creak like thetimbers of a ship as the tent sways slightly in the wind.Marcus stands before a map of the Roman Empire.					MAXIMUS			(bows)		Caesar.Marcus holds out a scroll.					MARCUS		Read this.					MAXIMUS		I never acquired the art, sir.					MARCUS		Of course.  No matter.  In this		letter I denote my intention to		nominate you to stand for the		Emperorship after my death.A stunned pause.  Maximus stares at him.					MARCUS		My son is not a moral man.  You have		known this since you were young.  He		cannot rule.					MAXIMUS		Caesar, I am honored but --					MARCUS		For twenty years I have been		spilling blood.  For twenty years I		have written philosophy and		ruminated and conquered.  Since I		became Caesar I have only had four		years without war.  Four years of		peace in twenty.  So perhaps I can		be... forgiven.A long beat.					MARCUS		While I have been fighting, Rome has		grown mad and corpulent and		diseased.  I did this.  And now I		shall make it right.					MAXIMUS		Sire, you brought the light of the		Gods to barbarian darkness.  You		brought civilization and justice to		the farthest --					MARCUS			(fierce)		I have brought the sword -- nothing		more!  Rome is far away and we		shouldn't be here.  What matter is		it to the Gods if we subdue one more		tribe of Parthians or Gauls?  What		matter is it to Rome if a thousand		more barbarians bend to our lash?A beat.Marcus sits.  He doesn't look at Maximus.A pause.					MARCUS		Winter, Maximus.  It's winter now...A beat.					MARCUS		There was a dream that was Rome.  I		can only whisper of it now.		Anything more than a whisper and the		dream vanishes.  It's so... fragile.		The true glory of Rome is in a very		fragile idea.  Imagine a place		devoted to the rights of the		citizen.  Where every free man has a		voice.  That was the dream... And I		fear it will not survive the winter.He holds out a hand to Maximus.  Maximus takes his hand,deeply moved, kneeling.					MARCUS		Let's just whisper here, you and I.					MAXIMUS		Yes, Caesar.					MARCUS		If the dream is ever to live again		the people must have a true voice.		The voice I took from them.  That		all the Caesars took from them, bit		by bit, conquest by conquest.  And		now that I am dying I am going to		give them that voice again.					MAXIMUS		You're not dying.					MARCUS		I am, Maximus.  It's strange... I		find as I near the end I think		little of the waning moments around		me... instead I think much of the		past... and of the future.  How will		the world speak my name in years to		come?  Will I be known as the		philosopher?  The warrior?  The		tyrant?  Or will there be a more		golden sounding to my name?  Will I		be the Emperor who gave Rome back		her freedom?A beat.					MARCUS		Before I die I will give the people		this final gift.  I will give them		the Senate reborn.  The voice of the		people empowered again, as it was		always meant to be.  It is my design		that they will elect the next		Emperor.  And I would put forward		your name with my backing.					MAXIMUS		Caesar, you do me honor -- but your		son has pride of place for		succession.					MARCUS		You are the son I should have had...		Although I fear in my deepest heart		that if you had truly been my son my		blood would have polluted you as it		did Commodus.  We're a cursed		bloodline.  We have lived so long in		power and depravity that we no		longer remember a life without it.		We can no longer even imagine a life		without it.A beat.					MARCUS		Look at me, son.Maximus looks at him.					MARCUS		Son... I know that one grove of your		vineyard is worth more to you than		all the treasures of Rome.  I know		one loving word from your wife is		worth more than the accolades of an		Empire.  But... a fond old man, who		loves you more than he can say, begs		you to at least think about what he		has said tonight.					MAXIMUS		I shall, Caesar.A beat.					MARCUS		I'll keep this letter to myself.  I		hope that with the sunrise you will		agree.  And embrace me as a father.Maximus nods and rises.  He begins to go.  Stops.					MAXIMUS		You have always been my father.He goes.INT.  TENT CORRIDOR - DAYMaximus emerges from Marcus' tent into a long tentcorridor, deep in thought.					LUCILLA'S VOICE		He always favored you...He turns.  Lucilla is waiting.  She glides to him.					LUCILLA		Even over his son.					MAXIMUS			(turning away)		That's not true.					LUCILLA		Maximus, stop...			(he stops)		Let me see your face.He turns to her.					LUCILLA		You've been crying.					MAXIMUS		I lost too many men.					LUCILLA		What does my father intend?He turns and walks.  She walks with him.					MAXIMUS		I don't know.					LUCILLA		You're lying.  I could tell when you		were lying even when we were		children.  You hate it.					MAXIMUS		I never acquired your comfort with		it.					LUCILLA		True.  But then you never had to.		Maximus, stop...			(he stops again)		... Is it really so terrible seeing		me again?					MAXIMUS		No.  I'm sorry.  I'm tired from the		battle.					LUCILLA		And you are hurt to see my father		dying.A beat.					LUCILLA		He will announce Commodus'		succession.  That's why he summoned		us.  Will you serve my brother as		you served his father?					MAXIMUS		I will always serve the ideals of		Rome.A beat.					LUCILLA		Do you know I still remember you in		my prayers...?  Oh yes, I pray...		Ever since that day you saved me		from drowning off Capri.  Do you		remember?					MAXIMUS		Yes.					LUCILLA		Commodus was so angry that a mere		peasant -- a Spaniard no less --		touched the royal person, do you		remember his anger?					MAXIMUS		Yes.					LUCILLA		Mark this, Maximus:  that is the man		who will be Emperor.A beat.					MAXIMUS		May I be permitted to go, Highness?She smiles sadly.					LUCILLA		There was a time when you didn't		call me "Highness."					MAXIMUS		And there was a time when you were		just a little girl drowning in the		sea.  All that was a different life.					LUCILLA			(quietly)		Very different... I wonder if it was		better?					MAXIMUS		It was more honest.A moment between them.  We sense there is much to be said,much that could be said.Finally:					MAXIMUS		I thank you for your prayers.He goes.  She watches him walk away.INT.  MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHTMaximus kneels before a small altar in his tent.  He facessix small figures that represent his dead ancestors.					MAXIMUS		Ancestors, true bloodline, I ask you		for your guidance.  Bring me your		solace and your wisdom.  Blessed		Mother, come to me in my dreams with		the Gods' desire for my future.		Blessed Father, watch over my wife		and my son with a ready sword.  Keep		them safe until my return.  Whisper		to them in their sleep that I live		only to hold them again and all else		is dust and air.  Ancestors, true		bloodline, I honor you and will try		to live with the dignity you have		taught me.He looks at his "ancestors" for a moment and then blowsout the candles around them.INT.  MARCUS' TENT - NIGHTCommodus' eyes are red with weeping.  He sits, head down,at the foot of Marcus' bed and speaks to his father.					COMMODUS			(quietly)		I search the faces of the Gods for		ways to please you... to make you		proud... and I can never do it.  One		kind word -- one full hug where you		pressed me to your chest and held me		tight -- would have been like the		sun on my heart for a thousand		years... What is it in me you hate		so much?  My eyes are your eyes.  My		hands are your hands.  All I have		ever wanted was to live up to you.		Caesar.  Father.He stands.  We see that he is holding the scroll denotingMarcus' intention to nominate Maximus as Emperor to theSenate.  Commodus cannot control his tears.					COMMODUS		Why does Maximus deserve what I		could never have? -- Why do you love		his eyes over mine? -- I would		butcher the whole world -- if you		would only love me...Commodus weeps.INT.  MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHTQuintus is waking Maximus --					QUINTUS		General -- Maximus --					MAXIMUS		Quintus -- ?					QUINTUS		The Emperor needs you.  It's urgent.Maximus leaps up and throws on a cloak, strides out withQuintus...EXT.  TENT CITY - NIGHTDead of night.  Maximus and Quintus stride quickly throughthe sleeping camp toward Marcus' tent.					MAXIMUS		What is it?  Is he ill?					QUINTUS		I don't know...They continue on toward Marcus' tent.INT.  MARCUS' TENT - NIGHTMaximus and Quintus stride into the tent -- Maximus slamsto a halt.  Stunned.Commodus stands before him.  Lucilla stands in a corner ofthe tent, head down.And Marcus Aurelius dead, lying on his bed.Maximus stares at Marcus.					COMMODUS		Lament with me, brother, our great		father is dead.  I want --Maximus, not even hearing, steps past him to Marcus.He stands for a moment and then slowly kneels beforeMarcus and gently kisses the old man's forehead.  A ritualfarewell.A moment of silent mourning and then Maximus stands.  Heturns very, very slowly to Commodus.					COMMODUS		General, the Gods' have taken the		great man and left me alone.  My		first desire as Emperor is that you		take my hand in friendship.  I need		you at my side, Maximus, at this		moment above all others.  Stand with		me.Maximus glares at him:					MAXIMUS		How did he die?Commodus does not respond.					MAXIMUS		How did he die?					COMMODUS		The surgeons say it was his breath		that gave out.Maximus glances to Lucilla, she avoids his eyes.					COMMODUS		Take my hand, Maximus.  I only offer		it once.A beat.Maximus turns back to Marcus.					MAXIMUS		How will the world speak your name		now, old man?Without a glance to Commodus, he stalks out.A silent beat.  Then Commodus nods to Quintus.  Quintusgoes.Lucilla looks at Commodus for a long moment, her face anenigmatic tornado of complex emotions.Then:					LUCILLA		Hail, Caesar.INT.  MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHTMaximus is kneeling before his ancestors, head down, hisfists clenched, praying.Quintus and four Praetorian ASSASSINS suddenly burst in --the assassins move immediately to bind Maximus -- swordsat his throat --					MAXIMUS		What -- ?!					QUINTUS			(ashamed)		Please don't fight, Maximus --					MAXIMUS		Quintus --Quintus goes to Maximus' armor, which hangs nearby, andslowly removes his seal of office.					QUINTUS		I'm sorry, General, Caesar has		spoken.They pull Maximus out --EXT.  MAXIMUS' TENT - TENT CITY - NIGHTFive horses are waiting.					MAXIMUS		Quintus, what -- ?					QUINTUS			(anguish)		I have no choice --They are almost run over by a stern cohort of twentyPraetorians who gallop past.  Maximus knows immediatelywhat this means.					MAXIMUS			(suddenly)		My family?!A beat.					MAXIMUS		What about my family, Quintus?					QUINTUS			(quietly)		They will greet you in the		afterlife.Maximus lunges at him -- the Praetorians subdue him --slamming him with a sword hilt -- knocking himunconscious.					QUINTUS			(quietly, to			assassins)		Take him as far as the sunrise and		then kill him.EXT.  FOREST ROAD - DAWNThe four Praetorian assassins lead Maximus along a road.He sits slumped in his saddle, drained.					ASSASSIN #1		All right, this is far enough.The three other assassins climb from their horses.Assassin #2 pushes Maximus from his horse.  He falls tothe ground hard.					ASSASSIN #1		You two take him down there where no		one will find him.					ASSASSIN #3		Come on, General...Assassin #3 and Assassin #4 drag Maximus down a denselyforested hill along the road.  Maximus' hands are stillbound in front of him.  He seems totally lacking in anyresistance.EXT.  FOREST - BELOW THE ROAD - DAWNMaximus eyes the two assassins as they troop down thehill away from the road, he notes their sparkling armor.The armor of men who have never seen real battle.					MAXIMUS		Have you ever done this before?					ASSASSIN #3		What?					MAXIMUS		Killed a man with a sword?					ASSASSIN #3		Not like this, exactly... this is		good, you can stop.They stop.  They are far down the hill, out of sight ofthe road.					MAXIMUS		It can be very messy -- you could		get blood all over your armor.  You		don't want to hack me up now.  You		want one clean stroke.					ASSASSIN #3		Would you kneel, General?Maximus kneels, his whole body secretly coiling.  Assassin#3 stands over him as:					MAXIMUS		One good stroke -- you do know		where, don't you?					ASSASSIN #4		Be quiet.					MAXIMUS		If you miss the spot there'll be		blood everywhere.  Quite a spray.					ASSASSINS #3		All right, where?					MAXIMUS		Here -- you don't want to hit the		vein on the neck --Maximus points his bound hands at a spot on the back ofhis neck.					MAXIMUS		Put the point of your sword here...		you want one, good blow right at		this spot --Assassin #3 dutifully puts the point of his sword on thespot on Maximus' neck.A grave mistake.Maximus instantly grabs the blade of the sword with hishands and yanks it from Assassin #3 -- EXPLODING up -- hishands are bleeding but he tosses the sword into the airand catches it -- swings the sword with brutal efficiency-- decapitating both assassins --EXT.  FOREST ROAD - DAWNOn the road above, the other two Assassins are on theirhorses, waiting.They hear a quick yelp from below.  And then nothing.Assassin #1 nods for Assassin #2 to check on theexecution.  Assassin #2 canters off the road and down thehill...EXT.  FOREST - BELOW THE ROAD - DAWNAssassin #2 canters down the hillside.He senses movement behind him -- spins around, drawing hissword -- too late --Maximus throws a sword -- it flashes through the air --and into Assassin #2.EXT.  FOREST ROAD - DAWNAssassin #1 waits on his horse.  He hears the commotionbelow -- spins his horse around just as Maximus bursts tothe road.  He stands with a sword.Assassin #1 spurs his horse and gallops toward Maximus atfull speed -- Maximus crouches and prepares --Assassin #1 and Maximus swirl together for an instant --both slashing brutally --Assassin #1 continues to gallop past Maximus.  He stops.He looks down.  A wound in his stomach.  He falls off hishorse.  Dead.Maximus has also been wounded -- a deep gash on his side.He fights the pain as he moves toward the horses...EXT.  FOREST ROAD - DAYMaximus is galloping through the forest at lightningspeed, leading four horses behind him.  The gash in hisside bleeding.EXT.  TENT CITY - DAYA gloomy day.  Emperor Commodus stands before theassembled Felix Regiment.The soldiers are already uneasy.  They note Quintusstanding by Commodus, wearing Maximus' seal of office.Where is Maximus?					COMMODUS		Even as the Gods curse this dark day		with clouds, so too does the sun		begin to shine forth on a promised		tomorrow.  Even as we mourn the		passing of our father, so too do we		celebrate the coming of a bright,		new age for Rome.  At my side,		brothers, you shall pull fresh		glories from the heavens.  At my		side, brothers, you shall know the		adoration of the Gods.  Doubly-dark		is this day because my friend, your		noble commander Maximus Meridas, has		been called to Rome to deal with		urgent matters of state...Titus glances quickly to Gallus, whose hand is bandagedfrom surgery.  They know this cannot be true.					COMMODUS		Until his promised return I		appointed Quintus Domitian to serve		in his stead.  I salute you,		Legionnaires!					QUINTUS			(raising his sword)		Hail, Caesar!The Felix Regiment responds, many unsure.					FELIX REGIMENT		Hail, Caesar!Commodus strides off and the Felix Regiment slowlydisbands, muttering to one another in confusion.Titus and Gallus go to Quintus.					TITUS		Quintus, what is -- ?					QUINTUS			(firmly)		Don't speak of it.  Never speak of		it.He stalks off.  Titus and Gallus, concerned, watch himfollow after Commodus.INT.  MAXIMUS' TENT - DAYLucilla stands in Maximus' tent.  She looks around.  Shegently touches his Lorica Segmentata.  Her fingertips movealong the contours of his armor.  She tries to retain herneutral demeanor.She notes his "ancestors" on the small alter.EXT.  HILLSIDE - NIGHTMaximus continues to gallop, he is on a different horse.He leads only two horses now.EXT.  VINEYARD - DAYMaximus' home in Spain is beautiful beyond measure.We see verdant farmlands and vineyards and a spacioushouse nestled amid gently rolling hills.Maximus' eight-year-old SON is in a paddock playing withhis pony.  He stops, sees something.  Over a hill, he canjust glimpse a battle flag, approaching.He screams with joy and runs toward the flag as he calls:					MAXIMUS' SON		MOTHER!  MOTHER!  FATHER'S HOME!Maximus' WIFE emerges from the house, drying her hands ona cloth and smiles.Maximus' Son races toward the flag.  He can just see thesoldiers beginning to appear over the hill.  Not a RomanLegion at all.  Twenty Praetorians canter over the hill.Maximus' Son stops, confused.EXT.  OLIVE GROVE - DAYMaximus is galloping up a hill, leading only one horsenow.  The horse he is on is exhausted, spent, foam coatsits neck.  It can't make it.The horse collapses and Maximus falls.  He immediatelyleaps onto the remaining horse and continues riding up thehill.EXT.  HILLS AROUND VINEYARD - SUNSETMaximus is racing over the countryside, galloping in afrenzy.  His wound is bleeding profusely, coating the sideof his horse.He rears the horse to a stop for a moment.  Over a hill hecan see thick black smoke rising.  He spurs the horse andgallops over the hill...EXT.  VINEYARD - SUNSETAnd his worst nightmares are realized.His home and his vineyards have been destroyed.  The earthhas been scorched and his house is still smoldering.  Herides up to the house and practically falls off the horse.He pulls himself up and walks past the smoldering debrisof his house, fearing what he knows he will find.He sees the bodies of servants scattered about in theruins.  He sees a Praetorian battle flag.He continues on, his wound bleeding more with everytortured step.  He finally stops.  He stares up.His wife and his son have been crucified and burnt.  Theyare nothing more than grotesquely twisted, charred shapes.Maximus instantly collapses to his knees -- he howls outhis torment in a heartrending keen of despair as he coatshis face in the ashes of his dead world.  He sinks intounconsciousness, praying for death.EXT.  VINEYARD - DAYAn unusual jingling sound is heard.  Maximus appears to bedead, his gaping wound beginning to fester.The source of the jingling becomes clear when we see thefeet of Bedouin brigands, with delicate anklets, shufflingaround him.  A hand touches his sandals.  Rich sandals.Another touches his tunic.  Good cloth.Suddenly Maximus groans.  The hands stop.  He's alive.  Abit of quick language in an unknown tongue.Then the hands grab Maximus and drag him away.EXT.  SLAVE WAGON TRAIN - DAYMaximus' eyes slowly open --Inches away from his face -- a lion roars --Maximus lurches back.He looks around to realize he is in a filthy slave wagon.Three other wagons slowly move over the desert landscape.Exotic animals are caged in pens or led alongside thewagons:  lions, panthers, zebras, a giraffe.  A dozenslaves are chained together alongside sacks of spices andother cargo.  Bedouin slave traders jabber in a surrealbabel of foreign tongues.And someone is looking at him.  JUBA, a striking African,is gazing at him impassively as he chews something.  Jubais also chained.					MAXIMUS			(weakly)		Am I in Hades?					JUBA		Yes.Juba spits what he has been chewing into his hands andmoves to Maximus.					JUBA		For your wound...Maximus stares at him.					JUBA			(nods)		For your wound.Maximus looks down -- the bloody wound at his side.Juba carefully places his poultice over the wound --Maximus hisses in pain -- Juba massages the poultice intothe wound gently as:					JUBA		If you die in the wagons they feed		you to the lions... The lions are		worth more than we are.  I think we		are worth more than the zebras		though.  So they don't feed us to		them.Maximus stares at him.  Juba looks down at him with thebarest hint of a smile.					JUBA		I'm not sure about the giraffe.EXT.  SLAVE MARKET - DAYThe heat of Morocco is unlike anything Maximus has everknown.  Shimmering heat waves undulate over the sand.The provincial market is bustling like the proverbialanthill.  Slave traders and dealers and merchants movearound, all talking very quickly and very emphatically.Maximus, Juba and a number of other slaves are on display,poked and prodded and fondled.  Their BEDOUIN SLAVE TRADERsings out their praises to any passers.The crowd parts almost magically for the dramatic arrivalof PROXIMO.  Proximo is a large man of immense appetites.He has the ferocious appearance of a true pirate.  Twoslaves follow behind him and impotently swat at flies withswitches.					SLAVE TRADER		Proximo, my old friend, see what I		have for you today -- !Proximo SLAMS a fist into the Slave Trader's face.  TheSlave Trader sails back.					PROXIMO		Those giraffes you sold me won't		mate!  All they do is run around not		mating!  YOU SOLD ME EUNUCH		GIRAFFES!!The Slave Trader pulls himself up, hugely obsequious.					SLAVE TRADER		I will make it up to you, Master.		It's bargain day for you!  Look,		look, look -- I have two lions and a		panther -- hear how they roar for		you!  "Bring me home, Proximo!"Proximo examines the animals.					PROXIMO		How much for the lot?					SLAVE TRADER		For you -- 8,000 sesterces.					PROXIMO		For me -- 6,000 sesterces and I want		to see their balls first.  And you		throw in those two slaves.					SLAVE TRADER			(moves to Maximus)		What about this one?  Look at the		arms!Proximo moves to Maximus.  The Slave Trader forces openMaximus' mouth.					PROXIMO		Good teeth --Proximo notes the many old battle scars on Maximus' body.					PROXIMO		Where did you get those scars?   Maximus doesn't respond.					PROXIMO		Are you a soldier?Maximus doesn't respond.					PROXIMO		Do you speak? --			(he roars back to a			slave)		KEEP THOSE DAMN FLIES OFF ME!			(back to Maximus)		He's dying.					SLAVE TRADER		1,000 sesterces.					PROXIMO		My ass...			(moves to Juba)		You throw in this one and we'll make		it 7,000 sesterces for the whole		lot.					SLAVE TRADER		I have to eat, Master!  He's my		finest, I couldn't let him go as		part of the lot for less than 9,000		total...			(back to Maximus)		I tell you this one is prime.  He's		a Spaniard and killed fourteen of my		men before he could be subdued!Proximo looks at Maximus, notes the many battle scarsagain.  The scars, and something he senses in Maximus'eyes, is enough for Proximo to consider it.					PROXIMO			(to trader)		All right, let's see.The Slave Trader and his colleagues grab Maximus andbustle him across the market, unlocking his chains.Maximus has no idea what's going on.In the center of the market place, a veritable GIANT of aman sits on a small stool, a wooden sword in his hand.  Heis hunched over and chained to the ground by a ten footchain shackled to his ankle.  A think metal helmet isriveted around his entire head, only long turfs of hairemerging.  His dim eyes stare listlessly through a slot inthe helmet.The Slave Trader puts a wooden sword in Maximus' hand andshoves him toward the Giant.  The Giant stands.  He towersover Maximus.The Giant suddenly swings his sword -- he moves withremarkable quickness -- Maximus makes no attempt to blockthe blow -- it sends him flying to the ground.Maximus pulls himself up.The Giant moves in and hits him again -- Maximus recoils-- the Giant hits him again -- Maximus falls.Maximus pulls himself up.The Giant moves in again -- he slams him a few more times-- Maximus makes no attempt to protect himself -- hefalls.Maximus pulls himself up.The Giant is about to attack again --					PROXIMO			(to Slave Trader)		That's enough.					SLAVE TRADER		STOP!  STOP!His colleagues race into the ring and haul the Giant awayfrom Maximus.  The Giant quietly sits back on his stool.Proximo studies Maximus for a moment and then glances tothe Slave Trader.					PROXIMO		I'll give you 500 sesterces.					SLAVE TRADER		No -- no -- 1,000!					PROXIMO			(laughs)		Come, don't quibble with your old		friend.  I'll take the lions, the		panther, the Numidian and this one		for 7,000.  And I'll buy you the		best whore in the town for two		nights.  She's an enormous mountain		of flesh who craves a stern hand.					SLAVE TRADER		How could I say no to my old friend		Proximo?EXT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - DAYMaximus and Juba are crammed into a wagon with about tenother slaves, including a very scared and reedy SCRIBE.Other wagons are filled with exotic animals, includingseveral lions.The wagons move through a crowded casbah and are takenthrough an imposing set of gates to...EXT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - COMPOUND - DAYAn open compound in Proximo's school.  On one side of thecompound is a series of cages filled with wild animals ofevery description -- including Proximo's two haplessgiraffes.Proximo's house slaves begin unloading the newly purchasedexotic animals into cages as Maximus and the new slavesare unloaded.  Heavily armed guards supervise everything.But Proximo's slaves are having a bit of a problem withone of the new lions -- it growls and resists them.Without the slightest hesitation, Proximo thunders to thelion and grabs it by the mane -- manhandling it into acage.					PROXIMO		COME ON, YOU FILTHY BEAST!He kicks the lion in the rear as he shoves it into thecage.Proximo's provincial school resembles nothing so much as aseedy prison.  The fading grandeur of the decayingbattlements and the sweeping North African architectureonly slightly mitigate the brutal feel of the place.And if Maximus had any doubts as to Proximo's profession-- all doubts are washed away when he sees the compound.Twenty GLADIATORS are working out in the compound --hacking at practice dummies and sparring.  The manyheavily armed guards oversee everything.  The gladiatorsstop working out as they see the new slaves enter.  Theyeye their potential new opponents warily.One huge, glowering gladiator -- VIBIUS -- watches withparticular interest.  His eye is quickly drawn to the mostobvious athlete:  Juba.The new slaves are herded to the middle of the compoundand house slaves immediately begin throwing buckets ofwater on them, cleaning them.Meanwhile, Proximo shrugs off his cloak.  A slave bringshim wine as he give his "welcoming speech" to the newslaves:					PROXIMO		Slaves.  I am Proximo, trainer of		gladiators.  You live and die at my		pleasure.  Fight well and you will		live.  Fight poorly and you will		die.  It is better to live.Slaves now toss thick handfuls of powdered lime on the newslaves -- they cough and clench their eyes shut, the limecoats and stings their wet bodies.					PROXIMO		Here you will be trained in the art		of combat.  Here you will be given		the tools to survive.  Please my		patrons in the arena and all the		gifts of the world will be showered		upon you.  Imagine riches beyond		your paltry dreams of riches!		Imagine fame beyond your rude		understanding of the word!  All this		can belong to the select few who		prove their worth in the arena.Slaves throw more water on the new slaves -- washing offthe lime.					PROXIMO		If... on the other hand... you		disappoint me... you will be		dismembered and fed to my jackals		limb by limb.He gazes evenly at his new acquisitions.					PROXIMO		And my jackals are always hungry.He strides off and the guards shove the new gladiatorstoward their cells.INT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - MAXIMUS' CELL - NIGHTMaximus and Juba share a small, filthy cell.  The celldoor faces the open compound.  Across the compound theycan see the much more comfortable cells of the "star"gladiators such as Vibius.They both sit on the floor, leaning against the wall.Juba is eating a bowl of food with a wooden spoon.Maximus' bowl and spoon are at his side, he has nottouched them.					JUBA		Have you killed a man before?Maximus does not respond.					JUBA		You should eat.  You'll need your		strength tomorrow.Maximus does not respond.					JUBA		I've never killed a man.  But I		think you have.Maximus does not respond.					JUBA		I almost killed once.  The Romans		destroyed my village.  I was with a		hunting party and when we		returned... I would have killed		every Roman in the world.A long beat.					JUBA		If you don't eat you will die.Maximus does not respond.A beat.					JUBA		In the village I come from there was		a man once.  He went fishing one day		and his boat was attacked by		crocodiles.  One of them ate his		leg.  He pulled himself to the shore		and a lion attacked him.  It ate one		of his arms.  He dragged himself		through the desert on the way home		and a scorpion stung his eye.  So he		only had one eye.  When he reached		the village I sat with him.  I said,		"You have lost a leg, an arm and one		eye.  You must have a mighty will to		live."  He said, "No, Lord, it's		just better than the alternative."Maximus finally looks at him.					JUBA		Life is a gift from our fathers to		us.  Who are you to give it up for		lack of lifting a spoon?Maximus does not respond.EXT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - COMPOUND - NIGHTMaximus and Juba are being observed.  Proximo stands inthe shadows of the compound and watches intently.EXT.  SLAVE WAGON - PROVINCIAL STREETS - DAYBlood appears to be flowing across an oxen's back.  Butthe blood is too rich, too red.The oxen are pulling an open slave wagon through thecrowded streets of the town.  Hanging above the street isdyed wool drying in the sun.  Vermilion and crimson dyesdrip down and splash across the oxen -- and splash acrossthe gladiators.Maximus, Juba, the formidable Vibius are chained in theback of the wagon.  Also the frightened Scribe.Proximo and a few of his guards drive the wagon.  Proximohas an umbrella over him, colored with years of drippingdyes.They pass a banner honoring Vibius, the star of Proximo'sstable.Meanwhile, the terrified Scribe is almost weeping,chattering nervously to Vibius, chained next to him:					SCRIBE		I know nothing of armaments and		warfare!  I'm a scribe -- I write		down words!  I can write down seven		languages --					VIBIUS		Be still.					SCRIBE		I don't -- how do you hold the		sword?!  I've never held a sword!					VIBIUS		You point the sharp end at your		opponent and you shove it in his		guts.					SCRIBE		I can't -- I --He suddenly vomits.					VIBIUS			(calling to Proximo)		Proximo!  You insult me with this		carrion!  Chain him to someone else!					PROXIMO			(calling back)		Don't worry, noble Vibius, he won't		be bothering you for long.The Scribe begins to weep.The crowds in the street jeer at the passing gladiators.Occasionally throwing trash at them.  A pack of childrenrun alongside the wagon, chanting:					CHILDREN		Dead guts!  Dead guts!  Dead guts!Maximus watches the children for a moment and then anothersight draws his attention.  Over some buildings he can seevultures circling in the distance.EXT.  PROVINCIAL ARENA - DUGOUT - DAYIn the cramped holding area of the arena, a dugout beneaththe stands, Maximus and the other gladiators are waiting.Proximo walks before them, giving a final "pep talk."  Hegazes at them evenly, his eyes going from face to face.					PROXIMO		Some of you say you can't fight, you		won't fight... They all say that...		But one day you will pick up a sword		and thrust it into another man.  And		the crowd will cheer you and love		you.  And you will love them for it.		On that day... you will be a		gladiator.He stops at Maximus.					PROXIMO		In this life, we all die.  All we		can choose is how we die.  And how		we are remembered.  Be remembered		proudly.Drums are heard from the arena.  Proximo nods to a waitingblacksmith.The blacksmith begins slamming shackles on the gladiator'swrists -- chaining them together in teams of two by achain about four feet long.The blacksmith is about to chain Maximus to the Scribe.					PROXIMO		No...			(he points to Juba)		... give the Spaniard to him.  Give		the Scribe to Vibius.Proximo nods to Vibius, who, for reasons we shall soonsee, makes no protest to being chained to the whimperingScribe.Proximo watches the blacksmith shackle Maximus and Jubatogether and then strides off.					JUBA			(to Maximus)		Are we going to fight each other?EXT.  PROVINCIAL ARENA - DAYProximo sits in a box with several other GLADIATORTRAINERS.  They drink wine and eat constantly.  Aperpetual chatter of wagers and odds and side bets.The arena is only sparsely attended this day.					PROXIMO		Make it 600 sesterces for each		decapitation.					TRAINER #1		How many strokes?					PROXIMO		Two.					TRAINER #1		For the great Vibius, one stroke.					PROXIMO		Done.  400 sesterces for two		strokes.In the arena:Proximo's chained teams enter the arena, five teams.Maximus and Juba are chained together.  Some of the smallcrowd cheers for Vibius.  He acknowledges the cheers.  Heis chained to the weeping Scribe.In the box:Trainer #1 laughs.					TRAINER #1			(re: Vibius)		Who's he with?					PROXIMO		A Greek Scribe.					TRAINER #1		I'll raise the wager.					PROXIMO			(smiles)		Give me odds, friend.In the arena:From the opposite end of the arena a dozen armored, veryscary Andabatae thunder into the arena.  Some of the crowdcheers.The Andabatae immediately race for the chained teams andthe battle is on.Vibius spins into action -- dragging the weeping Scribeafter him as he circles opponents and fights -- the Scribeis almost instantly killed -- Vibius immediately hacksthrough the Scribe's wrist and frees himself, as Proximosurely intended.  Vibius is now free to fight alone,swinging the chain as an additional weapon.Juba's eyes dart everywhere as he tries to move withMaximus -- Maximus neither helps nor hinders -- allowingJuba to pull him along --Proximo, now that his star Vibius is safe, watched Maximusand Juba closely.Juba fights well, with a strange elegance, his bodyflowing like liquid -- but he is inexperienced.  Hestrikes a few blows and then tries to move away -- finallyhe is in trouble -- cornered -- a huge Andabata is slicingat him -- it is a desperate battle -- Juba is losing --his sword is slammed away -- the Andabata raises his swordfor the kill --And Maximus strikes.With a sudden roar he EXPLODES into action -- he swingspast Juba and blocks the blow meant for Juba -- then heslashes the Andabata -- killing him -- he pulls Juba afterhim as he fights --It is a dazzling display of Maximus' skill -- he movesthrough the Andabatae at amazing speed -- spinning aroundJuba and protecting him -- slashing ruthlessly -- pullingJuba after him and commanding the battle -- Juba recoversa sword and they fight together.In the box:Proximo watches, smiles.  A gladiator is born.EXT.  ROME - WAGON - DAYSENATOR GRACCHUS, an imposing, moral and corpulent man inhis 60's, is riding in a luxurious wagon with SenatorGaius.And CAPTAIN MARCELLUS, the handsome Head of the Roman CityGuard.Their wagon slowly maneuvers through the crowded streetsof Rome.  The cosmopolitan bustle of the great urbancenter is everywhere around them.					GRACCHUS		We have plague in the Hebrew Quarter		and it is spreading... we have		looting at the granaries... we have		so much filth in the Tiber that the		water is undrinkable... we have		Praetorian Guard units that are		demanding protection payments from		the merchants at the exchange --					MARCELLUS		My City Guard units have tried to		curtail these excesses but no		constabulary can police the entire		city.  And the Praetorians outnumber		us two to one.					GRACCHUS		Rome dies as the Emperor plays at		beneficence.  At least Nero gave us		music!					GAIUS		Do you think he'll listen to us?					GRACCHUS		It is his duty to hear the will of		the Senate.Their wagon stops -- hopelessly stuck in a massive trafficjam of chariots, wagons and sedan chairs.					GRACCHUS		Not to mention the damn traffic!INT.  PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAYEmperor Commodus is standing before a group of malechildren and their tutors in his throne room.The throne room is still very much the province of hisfather.  Manuscripts and astronomical charts and papyrusscrolls and wax tablets litter the heavy desk.  A largebust of Marcus Aurelius is in one corner.Lucilla and Senator Falco are present.  So too SenatorsGracchus and Gaius and Captain Marcellus.A well-rehearsed child presents Commodus with a laurelwreath.					CHILD		We honor Caesar with the laurel to		show our love and appreciation for		his benevolence.					COMMODUS		Caesar is honored to accept your		tribute, Citizen Scholar.The child smiles and moves back to his fellows.					COMMODUS			(to all)		It is the most sacred duty of the		Emperor to oversee the education of		the young.  If I could leave no		other legacy than the scholarship of		all children my life would be		blessed.  Tutors, you hold the		future of Rome in your hands.  Teach		them well so that they will bring		honor to the Empire.  I salute you.Commodus actually bows before them, an unimaginable honor.The tutors bow in response and herd the children out.					COMMODUS		Look at them, Senators... my truest		gift to Rome.					GRACCHUS		Darling children, to be sure, now if		I may proceed?					COMMODUS			(sighs)		Very well...Commodus moves to the desk, standing over it and gazing atMarcus' scrolls as:					GRACCHUS		Caesar, your presence in Rome is an		invaluable opportunity to begin		correcting some of the ills that		have beset the city since your		father went to the wars.  We would		like to --					COMMODUS		Peace, good Gracchus, peace...Commodus slowly begins pushing Marcus' papyrus scrolls offthe desk to the floor, one by one, as:					COMMODUS		My beloved father was a careless		shepherd to his flock.  I shall be a		good father to my children.  I shall		remain in Rome and show them how		they are loved.					GRACCHUS		With respect, sire, the people don't		need love -- they need law.  The		Senate has prepared a series of		protocols to begin addressing the		corruption in the city --			(Gaius hands him a			scroll)		-- starting with basic sanitation in		the Hebrew Quarter.  If Caesar could		study this and --					COMMODUS		You see that's the very problem,		isn't it, my old, old friend?  My		father spent all his time at study.		At books and learning and		philosophy...As Commodus speaks he moves to the chair behind the desk,tries it, doesn't like it, nods to a slave.  The chair iswhisked away.					COMMODUS		He spent his twilight hours reading		scrolls from the Senate.  All the		while, the people were forgotten.					GRACCHUS		The Senate is the people.					COMMODUS		I doubt many of the people eat so		well as you do, Senator Gracchus...As Commodus speaks he moves to the bust of Marcus, studiesit, doesn't like it, nods to a slave and the bust iswhisked away.  Lucilla watches this closely.					COMMODUS		I doubt many of the people have such		splendid armor, Captain Marcellus.		Or such fine mistresses, Senator		Gaius.  No... only their true father		knows what the people need.  I shall		show them they are loved.  I shall		hold them to my bosom and embrace		them tightly --					GRACCHUS		Have you ever embraced someone dying		of plague, sire?Commodus stops.  Looks at him.  A lethal moment.					COMMODUS		No.  But if you interrupt me one		more time I assure you that you		shall.  I will emulate the immortal		Caesars of the past.  I will give		the people what they truly want.		Starting this day I will draw all of		Rome to the Colosseum.  I will give		them bread.  And they will want		nothing more.Startled looks between Gracchus, Gaius and Marcellus.					GRACCHUS		You want to hold games?					COMMODUS		Not just any games, Senator!  A		series of games that will make the		Gods envious and leave my children		happy!  I will subsidize the arena		from this day forth -- and I will		culminate this celebration in a		great spectacle the likes of which		the world has never seen!  A great		spectacle to honor my father!		Magnificent, unending weeks of		festivity all in the name of Marcus		Aurelius!A beat.					GRACCHUS		If I may, Caesar... how are you		going to pay for this?					COMMODUS		That is not your concern.Gracchus ignores a warning look from Gaius.					GRACCHUS		Respectfully, sire, taxation and		import duties are the exclusive		province of the Senate --Commodus spins on him so quickly and with such feralviolence that everyone is shocked --					COMMODUS		MY FATHER DESERVES TO BE HONORED AND		I WILL HONOR HIM! -- AND THE PEOPLE		WILL LOVE ME! -- AND THE SENATE WILL		OBEY ME OR EVERY ONE OF YOU WILL		BURN!  BURN!  BURN! -- I WILL HAVE		ORDER!He snarls like a great jungle cat and he stalks away.Senator Falco quickly follows.A dreadful silence.Then:					LUCILLA		Gentlemen, in the future do not		concern my brother with these		matters.  Come to me.She sweeps out.A beat.					MARCELLUS		Games?  He wants to hold games?					GAIUS		It's madness.					GRACCHUS		No... it's not...A beat.					GRACCHUS		He knows who Rome is.  Rome is the		mob.  He will conjure magic for them		and they will be distracted.  And he		will takes their lives.  And he will		take their freedom.  And still they		will roar.  The beating heart of		Rome isn't the marble of the Senate.		It's the sand of the Colosseum.  He		will give them death.  And they will		love him for it.INT.  PROVINCIAL ARENA - DUGOUT - TUNNELS - DAYMaximus is marching relentlessly through the dugout andcramped, serpentine trench-like tunnels that lead to thearena.We don't really see Maximus well in the dark tunnels.Proximo scurries to keep up with him -- they brush pastgladiators who line the walls.  Some are wounded, some arebeing attended to by surgeons, some are shell-shocked,some are nervously waiting to go on, whispering prayers.We twist and turn in the tunnels with Proximo and Maximusas:					PROXIMO			(quickly)		I've wagered on you against the		Celts -- ignore the others and go		for them -- there are two axe-and-		net and two long spear.  Now the		Celts aren't used to the sun so you		have the advantage there...The roar of the crowd is growing, they are nearing thearena...					PROXIMO		And keep them moving, their lungs		aren't strong, ground the spears as		soon as you can and then go for the		ax-men.  If you get all four there's		an extra bonus so don't be		distracted by the Spartans...Without a word to Proximo, or a moment's hesitation,Maximus strides into the arena.EXT.  PROVINCIAL ARENA - DAYWe continue with Maximus as he strides into the roaringarena.We finally see him in the blazing sunlight -- he wearstraditional gladiator armor and now has longer hair and abeard --A battle is already in progress, fighting and dead anddying gladiators crowd the arena --We stay with Maximus as he wades through his opponents,fighting them heroically, slashing through them withoutstopping --The large crowd cheers mightily -- chants of "Spaniard!Spaniard!  Spaniard!"We stay with Maximus as he cuts through the four Celtslike a scythe through wheat and then we dramatically pullup and away --Taking in the roaring arena and the hero.EXT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - COMPOUND - NIGHTA large mess area has been set up.  The tables around thecompound are crowded with gladiators.  Guards everywhere.Maximus and Juba enter.  Move to get food.  Allconversation gradually drains away as the other gladiatorswatch them.  Silence.Maximus and Juba note the strange silence as they move toa large table.Vibius is at the table with a number of other gladiators.There are no places for Maximus and Juba.Vibius stands and kicks two other gladiators off theirbench.					VIBIUS		MOVE ASIDE!  THIS IS A TABLE FOR		MEN!Maximus and Juba sit.Vibius remains standing.  He begins to pound on the tablewith his fist.  Soon all the gladiators are pounding ontheir tables.  It is a cacophonous din honoring Maximus.INT.  PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - PROXIMO'S CHAMBER - NIGHTProximo sits on a terrace overlooking his compound,sipping wine.  Various gladiators can be seen working outbelow.A guard brings Maximus.  Proximo nods for the guard toleave.					PROXIMO			(holding up a plate)		Butterfly?The plate is filled with honeyed butterflies, their wingsstill moving slightly.Maximus shakes his head.  Proximo pops one into his mouth.He chews as he looks at Maximus.					PROXIMO		Perhaps you'd like a woman?Maximus shakes his head.					PROXIMO		Boy?Maximus shakes his head.A beat.					PROXIMO		Gold?Maximus shakes his head.					PROXIMO		Well, I have nothing left to offer		you!  A man who turns down a		butterfly, a woman, a boy and gold		confuses me.  Personally, I'd grab		them all and then grab some more		because the Gods are fanciful and		take us at their whim.  Does the		Spaniard have any needs?Maximus shakes his head.A beat.  Proximo studies him.					PROXIMO		You fight like a soldier.  You have		wounds like a soldier who has been		on long campaigns.  You eye the		world around you like an enemy.		What is your name, Roman soldier?					MAXIMUS		Gladiator.A beat.					PROXIMO		And nothing more?					MAXIMUS		Nothing more.A beat.Proximo watches Maximus very closely for the following:					PROXIMO		In two days we leave for Rome.Maximus' eyes suddenly flash to Proximo.  He istransfixed, his eyes burning.					PROXIMO		Ah... so it's Rome you want.  Well		you shall have her, Gladiator.  The		new Emperor has ordered a series of		matches to culminate in a grand		spectacle.  If you do well I shall		become very, very rich.  If you do		well enough I shall set you free.		Is it freedom you want?A beat.Maximus shakes his head.					PROXIMO			(quietly)		Not even that.					MAXIMUS			(barely controlled)		The Emperor -- will he be there?					PROXIMO		Oh yes.  He's apparently quite mad		about the games.  Spending a		fortune, which is, needless to say,		good for me again.  But what is good		for you, Gladiator?					MAXIMUS		Have you -- how does one meet the		Emperor?					PROXIMO		As a gladiator?					MAXIMUS		Yes.					PROXIMO		One doesn't.A beat.  Proximo sees that Maximus' mind is racing.					PROXIMO		Except... If one has proven oneself		in battle.  If at the end of the		games you are the final man standing		-- the Emperor will present you with		a small wooden sword.  The sword is		your freedom.					MAXIMUS		He give it personally?					PROXIMO		He did to me...			(Maximus is surprised			at this)		Our great father Marcus Aurelius		looked into my eyes and touched me		on the shoulder.					MAXIMUS		You knew Marcus?					PROXIMO		I didn't know him.  He touched me on		the shoulder.  Just once.  But that		was enough.A beat.					PROXIMO		All right, Gladiator.  We shall go		to Rome together and have bloody		adventures.  The Great Whore will		suckle us until we are fat and happy		and can't suck another drop.  That		is Rome.INT./ EXT.  SLAVE WAGON - OUTSIDE ROME - EVENINGMaximus is crouched in the back of an enclosed slave wagonwith Vibius, Juba and a few other gladiators.In the distance, Rome.INT.  PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - NIGHTCommodus sits on his bed, rubbing his aching head.Lucilla is preparing a drink for him, a medicinal tonic.					COMMODUS		All my desires are splitting my head		to pieces -- there's so much I want		to do -- but all my efforts to show		my children they are loved go		unappreciated by those dragons in		the Senate --					LUCILLA			(mixing tonic)		Quiet, brother...Unseen by him, she adds a little special powder to thedrink from a vial secreted in her robe.					LUCILLA		Leave the Senate to me.  Don't		trouble yourself.					COMMODUS		All I want is to be a good father to		my people.  Why don't they		understand that?She goes to him.					LUCILLA		Shhh.  The tonic will help...She takes a sip and then hands it to him.					LUCILLA		Yes, just drink this down.She sits on the edge of the bed.  He drinks as:					COMMODUS		I must take a firmer hand with them.		They must know their father can be		firm.  As our father was firm with		us.					LUCILLA		Our father lost his way.  His		mistake was believing the old songs		of the "Republic."  We know better.		So let the Senate talk.  They have		no real power.					COMMODUS		Yes... yes... you always know the		way.  You were always so wise in		these matters...			(he takes her hand)		You know if I didn't have my duty to		Rome I think I should be an artist.		I should go away and paint pictures		of the sea and leave all the		politics to you...A beat.  He is sleepy, he lies back on his bed.					COMMODUS		Will you stay with me?					LUCILLA			(smiles gently)		Still afraid of the dark, brother?					COMMODUS		Still.  Always.A beat.					COMMODUS		My dreams would terrify the world.A beat.					LUCILLA		I'll stay with you until you are		asleep.					COMMODUS			(falling asleep)		And after... just sit with me.  Keep		me safe...He is asleep.She watches him for a moment and then rises.She goes.INT.  PALACE - HALLWAY - NIGHTLucilla moves down a long corridor in the palace and blowsout candles as she goes.She finally arrives at her own chamber and enters...INT.  PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBERS - NIGHTSenators Gracchus and Gaius and Captain Marcellus arewaiting.					LUCILLA		He's asleep.  Be quick.					GRACCHUS		We've taking a sounding, the Senate		is with us.					LUCILLA		Good.					GRACCHUS		But we are only words.  We are air.		We need steel.					MARCELLUS		The City Guard is faithful to the		Republic.  But we don't stand a		chance against the Praetorians.					LUCILLA		Can they be bought?					MARCELLUS		They are zealots -- totally		committed to your brother.					GRACCHUS		Well, can they at least be rented		for a day?					MARCELLUS		I doubt it.  He pays them exorbitant		salaries and lets them loot and		extort as they see fit.  The city		belongs to them.					LUCILLA		And they've started arresting		scholars now.  Anyone who dares		speak out -- even satirists and		chroniclers.					MARCELLUS		And mathematicians and Christians.		All to fill the arena.					GAIUS		And what pays for it?  These games		are costing a fortune and yet we		have no new taxes.					LUCILLA		The future.  The future pays for		it...A beat.  She looks at them.					LUCILLA		He's started selling the grain		reserves.   					GAIUS		No.					MARCELLUS		That can't be true...					LUCILLA		He's selling Rome's reserves of		grain.  The people will be starving		in two years.  I hope they are		enjoying the spectacles because soon		enough they will be dead because of		them.					MARCELLUS		Rome must know this.					LUCILLA		And who will tell them?!  You,		Marcellus?  You, Senator Gaius?		Will you make a speech on the Senate		floor denouncing my brother?  And		then see your family in the		Colosseum?  What town-crier would		dare?A long beat.					LUCILLA		He must die.A beat as her words sink in.					GAIUS		The Praetorians would only seize		control themselves.					LUCILLA		No -- cut off the head and the snake		cannot strike.					GRACCHUS		Lucilla, Gaius is right.  Until the		City Guard can neutralize the		Praetorians we can accomplish		nothing.					MARCELLUS		And I haven't enough men.					LUCILLA		What about the army?					GAIUS		No Roman army has entered the		capital in a hundred years.					LUCILLA		So we do nothing?!A door opens, a voice...					LUCIUS' VOICE		Mother...An eight-year-old boy stands in a doorway, sleepy.  He isLUCIUS, Lucilla's son.					LUCIUS		I heard voices...					LUCILLA			(going to him)		It's all right, darling, you --Lucius suddenly notices Senator Gracchus:					LUCIUS			(running to Gracchus)		Senator!  What did you bring me?!He leaps onto Gracchus -- Gracchus laughs and pullssomething from his robe.					GRACCHUS		For you prince Lucius... a sea		monster!Gracchus gives Lucius a beautifully painted toy of a seaserpent.					GRACCHUS		Off the coast of Achaea they grow		twenty times this size, with		snapping teeth to devour any nasty		Praetorians they come across... now,		where is Achaea?					LUCIUS		Below Macedonia!					GRACCHUS		Show me on the map.Lucius runs to a map and stabs his finger at Achaea.  Wesense this is an old game between them.					LUCILLA		Lucius, you go in now, I'll be in		shortly.					LUCIUS			(to Gracchus)		Thank you, Senator Mountain!					GRACCHUS		You're welcome, Prince Anthill!Lucius goes.  Lucilla shuts the door after him.  A moment.She turns to the others, a deep anguish in her eyes.					LUCILLA		What are you going to do?Gracchus goes to her, holds her.					GRACCHUS		Peace child... One dark night the		Gods will light our path.  They will		give us the voice we need.  Have		faith in that.  Have faith.INT./ EXT.  ROMAN STREETS - SLAVE WAGON - NIGHTMaximus cranes for a sight of the Eternal City through ahole in the wooden slats that cover the slave cart.He can see only glimpses of Rome as they pass.  But theimages are not what he expected.  Alongside the undeniableglory of the city, the madness and disease Marcus Aureliusspoke of are readily apparent.Maximus sees flashes of plague victims being tossed oncarts heaped with bodies -- he sees getting and spendingand commerce everywhere -- he sees fascist PraetorianGuard units trooping past -- he sees the magnificentarchitecture of the city -- he sees starving childrenbegging from filthy gutters -- he sees rich citizens outfor a stroll -- he sees a swirling combination ofsophistication and depravity, of civilization andcorruption.He sits back in the cart, deep in thought.  Vibius looksat him.					VIBIUS		Not what you expected?					MAXIMUS		No.					VIBIUS		Rome is nothing but a slaughter		house.  And we are the meat.EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHTThe slave wagon pulls up to Proximo's rather grand Romancompound.  Guards unlock imposing gates and the wagondrives in...EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - COURTYARD - NIGHTInside the gates is a large courtyard, much like Proximo'sMoroccan school but much more impressive.  A fountain withan enormous statue of the war god Mars is central in thecourtyard.The gladiators climb from the wagon, stretching after thelong journey.  Vibius leads Maximus and Juba to thestatue.  He wades through the fountain and kisses the toeof Mars.					VIBIUS		Tradition.  He watches over us.Juba steps up and kisses the toe.					VIBIUS			(to Maximus)		Oh go on, it won't kill you.Maximus kisses the toe as well.					PROXIMO			(calling to them)		Stop that!  You'll get some		monstrous disease and then you'll be		worth nothing to me!Guards come and lead them to their cells, which line oneside of the courtyard.INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHTLater.  Maximus and Juba again share a cell.  It is morecomfortable than their cell in Morocco, befitting Maximus'new status as one of the "stars."  A high, barred windowon one wall opens to the city.  Another barred window isdirectly over them, twenty feet above.Maximus pulls himself up to the side window, he looks out.And sees at last... The Colosseum.It is a breathtaking sight.  Monolithic Albert Speer-likecolumns of light shine up from the Colosseum.  It seems toilluminate the whole city and the heavens above.Maximus drops back to the floor.					JUBA		Do you think it will be much		different?  Here in Rome?					MAXIMUS		Bigger arena.  Same killing.A beat.					JUBA		Are you scared for tomorrow?					MAXIMUS		No.A beat.					JUBA		Me too.A beat.					JUBA		I never though it would be so easy		to kill.A beat.					JUBA		So you're finally home.					MAXIMUS		This isn't my home.					JUBA		For all Romans... this is home.A beat.					JUBA			(quietly)		Among my people we honor the soil of		our home.  Our ancestors are in that		soil.  All their dreams live there.		I will never see my home again.  The		soil is dead and no one honors them,		so the dreams die.A beat.					MAXIMUS		Perhaps one day you'll return.Juba looks at him.					JUBA		How can I go back?  I am not what I		was.  When a man kills for no		reason, he has lost himself.A long beat.Juba leans his head back and quietly begins to sing.  Ahaunting lament in his native tongue.EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAYA flurry of images from around the Colosseum, the energymounting.  At this point we see practically nothing of theinside of the Colosseum:Slaves are balancing high above the empty arena.  They areon ropes unrolling huge rolls of muslin; sun tarps thatprovide shade below...Merchants open stalls in the curved arcade around outsideof the Colosseum.  They sell everything from food to magicelixirs, from toys to aphrodisiacs.  They immediatelystart declaiming and demonstrating the virtues of theirproducts...Gangs of whores of both sexes trawl the streets.  Theyhave bizarrely-colored hair and elaborate makeup...Citizens begin arriving, pushing past the vendors and thepickpockets.  We see whole families with picnic lunches...Ferocious animals are brought into the Colosseum in barredcages...In the busy arcade, barbers and blood-letters practicetheir craft alongside exotic alchemists, fire eaters andcontortionists...Richer citizens arrive in sedan chairs and chariots, theyfeign indifference to the hooting mob...Mounted City Guard police units try to retain someorder...Gamblers crowd betting booths and haggle mercilessly...Finally, we see Maximus and the other gladiators in aslave cart.  Maximus watches everything as the slave cartdisappears into the Colosseum...INT.  COLOSSEUM - ROUTE TO HOLDING CELLS - DAYThe interior of the Colosseum is a busy world unto itself.Maximus and the others are lead by Proximo's guards down along ramp and past countless animal cages.  Gamblerscirculate everywhere and observe the warriors, angling forthe best odds and the best matches.Maximus and the others are led even deeper into the bowelsof the Colosseum to a new whole subterranean realm.Numerous cells line the walls.  Racks and racks ofweaponry and armor.And, most striking, everywhere around them is the heavymachinery of the spectacles above.  Huge "elevator"platforms and ramps and pulleys and counterweights aremanned by teams of sweating slaves.INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAYFinally, Proximo's guards lead the gladiators to theirholding cells.  These cells are right at the edge of thearena.  Barred windows offer a sand-level view of theaction.Maximus immediately goes to a window and looks out.He cannot see much of the entire arena, but what he doessee transfixes him.A band of Christians are huddled together.  An eeriesilence from the Colosseum but for the prayers of theChristians.Maximus watches them.  One little girl peels past hermother's arm.  She sees Maximus.  She smiles.Suddenly a dozen ferocious lions race up a ramp by Maximus-- they roar into the arena --We do not see the carnage.  We watch Maximus' face as wehear the sounds of the slaughter.And the sound of the roaring crowd.Maximus finally cannot watch.  He drops his head.INT.  COLOSSEUM - TRAINER'S LAIR - DAYProximo is with a dozen other gladiator trainers and theColosseum's orator and majordomo, CASSIUS.  They arehaggling in an secluded area not far from the arenaitself.  Huge chalkboards chart the day's matches andwagers and odds.Colosseum touts continually erase and mark new figures onthe chalkboards to keep up with the swiftly changingbouts.The roar of the lions and the unnerving screams of theChristians can clearly be heard.					CASSIUS		... and the Emperor will have no		more animal battles today --Upset roars from some of the trainers.					TRAINER #1		You promised me a bear match,		Cassius!					TRAINER #2		I have ten damned gorillas!  You		said gorillas yesterday!					CASSIUS		Talk to the man in the imperial box.		Who has the next slot...?			(he checks the			boards)		-- Lentulus, Gideon, Trebonius and		Proximo --			(to Proximo)		-- Nice to have you back, you		piratical bastard -- now listen, the		Emperor wants the Carthage		spectacle.The four trainers explode in a flurry of resistance --					PROXIMO		No -- have pity, Cassius -- !					TRAINER #3		My men are too good for -- !					CASSIUS		You give us the Carthage match or		lose your spot on the rotation --		but don't worry -- gold is flowing		from the Emperor's fingers.					TRAINER #3		It'll cost you --					PROXIMO		I won't do it for less than 100,000		sesterces -- !					TRAINER #4		120,000!  All I have is my best		Thracians!					CASSIUS			(to Proximo)		And I want to see this famous		Spaniard of yours -- his reputation		soars from the provinces.  The		people are eager for him --					PROXIMO		I won't throw my Spaniard into a		spectacle!  Damn you and damn the		rotation!					CASSIUS		You will and the price will be		90,000 sesterces each --			(to all)		-- which you all know is exorbitant		-- AND IF YOU EXTORTING BLOOD-WHORES		TRY TO PAWN OFF LESSER FIGHTERS ON		ME I WILL SEE YOU DEAD IN THE ARENA		TOMORROW!					TRAINER #4		My Thracians are worth -- !					CASSIUS		Give me your best, brothers.  They		die before Caesar.He strides back to the arena.  The touts instantly beginmaking new marks on the boards to represent the mysterious"Carthage Spectacle" as some of the trainers hurry out.Proximo walks with Trainer #4:					PROXIMO		I give you 30,000 my Spaniard will		kill at least one of your Thracians.					TRAINER #4		30,000?!  On a Spaniard?!  That		provincial sun has curdled your		brain!					PROXIMO		Then make the wager, you smug		bastard!They disappear down a dark corridor, negotiating all thewhile.INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAYMaximus, Juba, Vibius and another of Proximo's gladiatorsare being armed.  They all wear mask-like helmets.Proximo hurries to them.					PROXIMO		All right -- there are three other		teams, four men each --			(to Maximus)		You know what a Thracian looks like?					MAXIMUS		Yes, but --					PROXIMO		Ignore the others -- go for the		Thracians.  The sun is to the east		-- over the gate -- keep your back		to the gate and you won't have the		sun.					MAXIMUS		What -- ?Trumpets begin sounding from the arena.					PROXIMO		Hurry -- !The guards quickly bustle the four toward a gate leadingto a dark tunnel to the arena.					PROXIMO		Die well and we'll sing songs about		you for a generation.Short swords are shoved into their hands and the gaterises.  They are pushed into the dark tunnel leading tothe arena.  The gate closes behind them.The four gladiators stand for a moment and then slowlywalk down the tunnel to...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYAt last we see it.The mighty Colosseum Arena.Nothing we could have possibly imagined could haveprepared us for the sight of the thousands and thousandsof screaming spectators, the row after row of cheeringfaces.It is staggering.But for Maximus none of this exists.  His full attentionis focused on one spot alone.  The Imperial Box.He can see Commodus and Lucilla sitting in the box.  Thebox is elevated fifteen feet above the arena floor at thetop of a sheer black marble wall.  A cohort of fiftyimposing Praetorian Guard Archers surround the box.Commodus' personal Body Guard of six Centurions actuallystand in the box itself, eyes constantly watching likemodern Secret Service agents.Commodus is untouchable.Meanwhile, three teams move from different entrances tothe arena.As Cassius orates to the crowd:					CASSIUS		This day we reach back to hallowed		antiquity to bring you... THE FALL		OF MIGHTY CARTHAGE...!			(the crowd cheers)		... On the barren armies of the		barbarian Hannibal!  Ferocious		mercenaries and warriors of all		brute nations bent on merciless		conquest!  Your Emperor is pleased		to give you... THE BARBARIAN HORDE!He gestures to the gladiators in the arena.  The crowdlaughs, jeering the "barbarians."The drummers begin pounding out a more insistent, heroicbeat.					CASSIUS		But on that illustrious day the Gods		sent against them Rome's greatest		warriors...!  The very life-image of		nobility and glorious valor... who		would on this day, and on these same		arid Numidian deserts, decide THE		FATE OF THE EMPIRE... Your Emperor		is pleased to give you... THE		LEGIONNAIRES OF SCIPIO AFRICANUS!!The crowd EXPLODES in cheers as the huge doors at one endof the arena suddenly burst open and ten chariots thunderin --Each chariot has a driver and an archer, both dressed intheatrical versions of the familiar Roman LoricaSegmentata.A chaos of dust -- and the battle is on --The chariots zoom around the arena -- the archers keepingup a deadly hail of arrows.Maximus immediately dives onto a passing chariot and killsthe charioteer and archer -- he dramatically leaps fromthe front of the chariot to a lead horse and cuts it free.And Maximus takes control, we see the General of the FelixRegiment gloriously alive again as he barks out orders andleads his gladiators in battle.  They follow himfaithfully, his stern commands unquestioned.His strategies are quick and smart, he makes thegladiators work together.This kind of slaughter could last for hours...We see flashes of the endless battle... Maximus races onhis horse past another chariot, kills the driver, thechariot smashes into a wall... the sun sinks lower, theshadows on the sand lengthen... areas of the sand areswamps of blood, Juba slips, pulls himself up fighting...Maximus uses Vibius to create a diversion, two chariotscollide... the crowd roars... a gladiator is draggedbetween a chariot and the side wall of the arena... thedrummers pound out their relentless tattoo...Finally...Maximus is on his horse across from the final chariot.We can see that Juba and Vibius and a few other gladiatorsare still alive.  The rest of the arena is polluted withthe dead and injured.Maximus spurs his horse and gallops toward the finalchariot -- the charioteer whips his horses and zoomstoward Maximus --The crowd is breathless -- watching the final battle --Maximus and the chariot speed toward each other -- likeMedieval jousters --And collide in a flashing explosion of steel --Maximus sails from his horse -- as the charioteer sailsfrom his chariot --Maximus lands hard but quickly pulls himself up, he racesto the final charioteer.  The charioteer is defeated butnot dead.Maximus glances around, all his opponents are defeated.He stands over the final charioteer.  Then he simplytosses down his sword.The crowd is stunned by this strange act of mercy.  Butthen an enormous roar grows from the crowd -- wave afterwave of adulation for the hero of the day.Maximus looks around, taking it all in.Then he turns to the Imperial Box.Maximus slowly walks to before the the Imperial Box.  ThePraetorian Archers immediately raise their bows, pointingdown at him.Maximus glares up at Commodus through his helmet mask.Commodus returns his gaze, curious.The crowd is intrigued, growing quiet.  What is going on?Then Maximus simply turns and begins walking away.					COMMODUS		Slave!  Who are you?The Colosseum is suddenly silent.  The Emperor is speakingto a gladiator.Maximus keeps walking.					COMMODUS		SLAVE!  WHO ARE YOU?Maximus keeps walking, his fists clenched now.Commodus suddenly grabs a spear from a nearby Praetorianand hurls it with perfect aim -- the crowd gasps -- thespear sails past Maximus -- actually nicking his shoulder-- it slices into the sand ahead of Maximus.Maximus stops.					COMMODUS		SLAVE!  WHO ARE YOU?!Maximus can hold it no longer.  He spins to Commodus --ripping off his helmet mask -- and THUNDERING:					MAXIMUS		I AM MAXIMUS MERIDAS, GENERAL OF THE		FELIX REGIMENT OF THE ROMAN ARMY AND		SERVANT TO THE EMPEROR MARCUS		AURELIUS!Commodus eyes shoot wide -- Lucilla bolts up -- Gracchusleans forward -- Proximo is stunned -- the crowd ismystified --					MAXIMUS		I AM FATHER TO A MURDERED SON AND		HUSBAND TO A MURDERED WIFE AND		LANDLORD TO A MURDERED WORLD -- AND		I WILL HAVE VENGEANCE!The Praetorian Archers tense their bows -- ready to killthe defiant slave --But something extraordinary stops them.  Almost as onebeing the crowd roars -- they leaps to their feet andthrust their thumbs up!  They cheer and stomp theirapproval of Maximus.Commodus looks around at the people of Rome, amazed.He finally plasters on a benevolent smile and thrusts histhumb up!  The Praetorians lower their bows.And the crowd cheers.  Never in the long, long history ofthe Colosseum have they ever seen such a thing.Maximus leads his gladiators out of the arena.INT.  PALACE - THRONE ROOM - NIGHTTo our great surprise, Commodus is not raging.  He sitsquietly on the polished marble floor in front of a modelof the Colosseum.  He moves model pieces around in theColosseum, planning his festival.Lucilla stands, tense.					COMMODUS		Why is he still alive?					LUCILLA		I don't know.					COMMODUS		He shouldn't be alive.  That vexes		me.  I am terribly vexed...Lucilla watches her brother cautiously, expecting theexplosion.  He carefully moves some model pieces in thearena.					COMMODUS		There, that's better.  Do you like		the platform here?					LUCILLA		Mmm.					COMMODUS		I do too.  Simple, elegant...Lucilla is growing more and more unnerved at Commodus'unusual serenity.					COMMODUS		Father would have wanted something		more ornate but he's dead now.A beat.  Commodus laughs.  A beat.					COMMODUS		Maximus Meridas haunts me.  I see		Father turning away from me and		gazing at him.  How many times did I		suffer that indignity, I wonder?					LUCILLA		What are you going to do?					COMMODUS		I'm going to kill him.					LUCILLA		Good.					COMMODUS			(glances at her)		Oh, you're too clever, Sister.		Don't tell me part of you won't weep		for him.					LUCILLA		When he defies my brother the		Emperor, he defies me.  But you		shouldn't send assassins.					COMMODUS		No?					LUCILLA		The people embraced him today.  They		will be expecting his next match...			(she kneels next to			him)		... let him die in the arena like		the slave he is.  Let the people see		what comes of defying Caesar.A beat as he looks at her.					COMMODUS		He wounded you deeply, didn't he?		Long ago.She does not answer.					COMMODUS		Nonetheless, your political acumen		is, as always, unerring.He picks up a model tiger and puts it in the arena.  Helooks at the model tiger and smiles.INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHTMaximus silently awaits Commodus' assassins with Juba.They hear footsteps outside the cell.  Maximus stands,preparing for death.					JUBA			(also standing)		I will fight with you.					MAXIMUS		This isn't your battle.					JUBA		Better to die for a friend than to		die for gold.The door swings open and they are surprised to see Proximosweeping in with a cloaked woman.  The woman gives Proximoa bag of money.					PROXIMO		Enjoy yourself, Madame...			(he glances to			Maximus)		General, perform well and there will		be riches for you.He beckons to Juba, they go, shutting the door behindthem.  The woman pulls off her cloak, it is Lucilla.Maximus glares at her, his muscles tensing.					LUCILLA		Rich matrons pay well to be		pleasured by the bravest champions.Maximus backs up, fighting the urge to strangle her on thespot.  He finally bumps into a wall of the cell.					MAXIMUS		I knew your brother would send		assassins.  I didn't think he would		send his best.					LUCILLA		Maximus, listen to me --					MAXIMUS		My family were crucified and burnt		while they were still alive.					LUCILLA		I knew nothing of that.					MAXIMUS			(low)		Don't lie to me.					LUCILLA		I wept for them.					MAXIMUS		Don't.A long, tense moment.She does not look at him.					LUCILLA		Do you know what it is to be the		daughter of the Emperor?  I learned		on the night my father had my		husband killed.  I loved my husband		very much.  Very... simply.  He was		a man who believed in the Republic.		He was a man who thought Marcus		should be tending to Rome and not		conquering the world.  One night my		father had him strangled for		conspiring with the Senate.  My		father never spoke of it.  I never		spoke of it.  That is what it is to		be the daughter of Rome.She finally looks up at Maximus.					LUCILLA		My son will live.  He will survive		this cursed bloodline.  Rome will		die and the jackals will pick her		clean -- but my son will survive.		Empires come and go.  Cities crumble		to dust.  Only family matters.A beat.  Despite himself, Maximus is moved.					MAXIMUS		My son was innocent.					LUCILLA		So is mine.A beat.					MAXIMUS		I want your brother dead.					LUCILLA		So do I.A beat.  Maximus is surprised at her direct answer.					LUCILLA		My son will never be safe while he		lives.A beat.					MAXIMUS		How do you plan it?					LUCILLA		The Senate is with us, and the City		Guard.  We have growing power in the		streets.  But we need a leader.		Someone the people can --					MAXIMUS		So the crown passes to your son.					LUCILLA		No.  So that my son will be safe.		So that we may leave this charnel		house forever and never look back.		Look into my eyes, Maximus, and		believe what I say to you...She rivets him intensely with her eyes.					LUCILLA		By all the Gods, and in the name of		my father who loved you, and in the		name of the husband I loved... I		swear to stand by your side in this		now and always.A beat.					MAXIMUS		What is your son's name?					LUCILLA		Lucius Verus.  Like his father.					MAXIMUS		I weep for him.A long beat.  Maximus' cold eyes give away nothing.Lucilla turns and starts to go.  She stops, not lookingback.					LUCILLA		Commodus plans to kill you in your		next match in the arena.  He's		planning something.  I will pray for		you.  As I have always done.She then pulls something from her robes and sets it down,a little bundle wrapped in cloth.  She sweeps out.  Thesound of the door being bolted shut on the other side.Maximus stands for a moment and then goes to what she hasleft.  He opens the cloth.  Inside are his six "ancestor"figures.He picks up one of the figures.  He looks at it deeply,gently feeling along the contours with a finger.EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYThe Colosseum is again packed.  Commodus, Lucilla and herson Lucius are in the Imperial Box.It is late in the day and teams of slaves are cleaning thearena after a bout.  They haul off carcasses and toss downfresh sand.Meanwhile, Cassius is orating to the crowd:					CASSIUS		... in his majestic charity the		Emperor has deigned to this day		favor the people of Rome with an		historical final match.  Returning		to the Colosseum today... after five		years in retirement... Caesar is		pleased to bring you... THE ONLY		UNDEFEATED CHAMPION IN ROMAN		HISTORY...			(the crowd is going			mad)		... THE LEGENDARY... TIGER OF GAUL!!The crowd erupts in paroxysms of joy as TIGER explodesinto the arena in an ornate chariot.  Tiger is a fierceman in his 40's, his brutal, scarred face and hugelymuscled body a testament to his many years in the arena.Tiger speeds around the rim of the arena in his chariot,raising an arm in triumph.  The crowd roars.INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAYProximo stands with Maximus, who is busy strapping onarmor.					PROXIMO		Gods!  That old Homicide!  The		Emperor must truly hate you.					MAXIMUS		What can you tell me?					PROXIMO		He cheats.INT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYTiger waits.  He stands in the center of the arena.  Hehas only a traditional short sword.  The crowd isbreathless with anticipation.  As:					CASSIUS			(orating)		And from the rocky promontories and		martial bloodlines of Spain...		representing the training lyceum of		Proximo Antoninus... I give you...		THE WARRIOR MAXIMUS!The crowd cheers.  Maximus appears from his gate.  Hisfans have increased in number considerably.  They eagerlycrane forward and celebrate him.Meanwhile, Maximus looks at Tiger.  Only one man with asword?  Maximus approaches, cautious but confident.He stops a few feet from Tiger.  They lock eyes, saluteeach other and then turn to the Imperial Box, raisingtheir swords.The crowd waits eagerly for the immortal words...					MAXIMUS AND TIGER		We who are about to die salute you.The crowd cheers and Maximus immediately turns and startsslashing -- Tiger easily blocks and strikes back --The sword play is very fast -- they block and parry andhack like lightning -- constantly attacking -- they areperfectly matched --As he fights Maximus becomes aware of a strange sound overthe roar of the crowd -- a low rumbling -- then he feelssomething -- a vibration in the ground --Suddenly traps doors swing open and four enormousplatforms rise into view.  On each platform is a snarlingBengal tiger restrained by a chain.  Tiger's teams of"cornermen" hold the chains through a pulley system.  Thecornermen are safely inside cages.  The platforms stop atground level.The four ferocious tigers now mark the four corners of thebattleground.Tiger takes advantage of Maximus' momentary confusion andassaults brutally -- forcing him back toward one of thetigers -- the tiger claws for Maximus -- Maximus justevades it claws -- rolls for a new position -- anothertiger snaps at him --Tiger attacks -- Maximus is on the defensive -- fightingoff Tiger and evading the four snarling beasts --And then all four tigers are suddenly closer.  The teamsof cornermen are letting the chains play out, bit by bit,gradually reducing the size of the battle ground.  Thecrowd roars.But the fight is hardly fair.Whenever Tiger is near one of the tigers the cornermenpull back the tiger slightly -- when Maximus is near atiger they let it out a bit.Maximus and Tiger fight -- swirling action -- finally,Maximus has the edge -- he circles so that the sun stabsinto Tiger's eyes -- then Maximus lunges forward underTiger's swinging sword and SLAMS into him -- they fall --a tiger swats at Maximus' face -- he jerks his head back-- he shoots out a leg and kicks Tiger's sword toward oneof the tigers -- it is out of reach -- Maximus leaps upand stands over the winded Tiger, sword to his throat.Tiger is gasping for breath, crushed.Then one of Tiger's corners suddenly cheats -- theycompletely release a tiger -- it leaps for Maximus --Maximus barely has time to turn -- the tiger crashes intohim -- its claws slashing into his back, cutting throughhis leather armor -- Maximus shoves an armored forearminto the tiger's jaws and stabs with his sword --Tiger takes this chance to pull himself up -- one of hiscorners throws him another sword -- the crowd boos --Maximus wrestles with the tiger -- spinning it around withsuperhuman effort so it is always between himself andTiger -- so that Tiger can't get at him --Maximus finally kills the tiger and leaps for Tiger -- hequickly disarms him and tosses him to the ground --Maximus stands over him -- ready to administer the coup degrace.All eyes turn to the Emperor.Commodus slowly stands and steps to the edge of theImperial Box.  He raises his arm and gives the fatalthumbs down.Maximus looks up at him.And then defiantly tosses the sword to the ground,refusing to kill Tiger.Commodus is stunned.The crowd gasps -- a collective intake of breath -- andthen an enormous roar building.  It cascades around theColosseum.  It is a roaring celebration of the unexpectedact of mercy.  And the delicious act of defiance of theEmperor.Commodus slowly sits.Maximus walks across the arena -- the people stand andcheer for him.  Cries of "Maximus the Merciful" can beheard.It is the birth of a hero.INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAYMaximus is resting in his cell after the battle, headdown, deep in thought.					LUCIUS' VOICE		Is it true you're a General...?Maximus looks up, Lucius is standing at his cell.  Maximushas no idea who the boy is -- just another young fan --but Maximus is immediately struck by Lucius' resemblanceto his own son.					MAXIMUS		I was a General.					LUCIUS		I saw you fight.  The Carthage		battle too.  I've never seen so much		courage.					MAXIMUS		It doesn't take courage to kill.					LUCIUS		My father was killed.A beat.					MAXIMUS		I'm sorry.					LUCIUS		He still comes to me in my dreams.		Do you have a father?					MAXIMUS		I had a father.  He wasn't really my		father but I cared for him very much.					LUCIUS		I hope he comes to you in your		dreams.  My father and I ride horses		in mine.These simple words strike something deep in Maximus.Lucilla appears from the shadows and puts her hands onLucius' shoulders.					LUCILLA		Lucius, run along now.  I need to		talk to the General.Lucius runs off to his Male ATTENDANT, who leads him away.A long beat as Maximus and Lucilla look at each other.Finally:					MAXIMUS		Where is my army?A drum beat is heard.  It increases throughout thefollowing scenes, building momentum like a Roman galleryaccelerating to ramming speed.The conspiracy scenes are enclosed in a montage of scenesin and around the arena showing Maximus' growingpopularity with the People of Rome...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYMaximus is fighting an opponent.The drums continue...INT.  THE SENATE - DAYLucilla conspires with Senators Gracchus and Gaius andCaptain Marcellus in a dark corner of the Senate.Whispers.					LUCILLA		... Maximus will summon his army		from Ostia and he will strike from		the inside as his army strikes from		the outside.  But he insists that		the Senate be present.					GAIUS		We've been ordered to attend.					LUCILLA		How many are with us?					GRACCHUS		About half.  But once the tyrant is		dead.  All.A beat.					GRACCHUS		I want to meet him.					LUCILLA		I'll arrange it.					GAIUS		And what of the Emperor?A beat.					LUCILLA		He has withdrawn.  He's not eating.		He doesn't go out.  He won't even		see me... I don't know what tempests		rage within him but...					GRACCHUS		We should fear for the blackest		storm.					LUCILLA		Yes.A beat.					GAIUS		One question... who is to be the		actual Regicide?A beat.  She glances at him.The drums continue...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYMaximus defeats his opponent.  He stands over him.  Hedoes not kill him.He tosses his sword down and walks away.  The crowd goescrazy, roaring their approval of Maximus.Senator Falco, sits in the stands and watches with somealarm.  He glances around as the crowd exalts Maximus.  Heis becoming a hero to the people.The drums continue...INT.  COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAYMaximus returns to the holding cells.  Vibius and Juba arewaiting.					VIBIUS		You didn't kill him.					MAXIMUS		I will not kill another warrior.		There is no honor to it.Maximus goes.  Vibius thinks about it, listening to theadulation of the crowd.The drums continue...INT./ EXT.  SLAVE WAGON - ROMAN STREETS - DAYMaximus and the other gladiators are in a slave cart onthe way from the arena.  A gang of children run alongsidethe cart, cheering and chanting:					KIDS		Maximus the Merciful!  Maximus the		Merciful!The drums continue...INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHTMaximus and Juba are with Lucilla and Gracchus.  Lucillais writing on a piece of parchment.					MAXIMUS		Tell him we will enter Rome on the		first day of Commodus' festival.					LUCILLA		And they will march on Rome for you?					MAXIMUS		Yes.  But this letter must go to the		lieutenant named Titus, no one else.					LUCILLA		Captain Marcellus will take it.  And		his City Guard will by with you when		you get to Rome.  Is that enough to		face the Praetorian Guard?					MAXIMUS			(looks to her)		The Felix Regiment will never be		defeated.A beat.					GRACCHUS		I only have one question for you,		General... Why?A beat.					GRACCHUS		You will lead an army of your		brothers on Rome.  Many will die.		Why?					MAXIMUS		I want Commodus dead.					GRACCHUS		That's not the reason.  Tell me the		truth.A beat.					MAXIMUS		Because one night an old man		whispered to me about a dream.  I		will die for that dream.A long beat.					GRACCHUS		I knew the old man well.  And I		loved him very much.  In our youth		we would spend hours building that		dream together.  After he went to		the wars and lost his way... I was		very cruel.  I tormented him to		remember that dream we spoke of.					MAXIMUS		He did.					GRACCHUS		You can have no idea how much that		means to me.A beat.					GRACCHUS		Any man who will die for a whispered		dream deserves my respect.  I honor		you, General.The drums continue...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYVibius defeats an opponent -- he stands over him.  Helooks around at the crowd.  Then he tosses down his swordand walks off.The crowd goes mad with pleasure.  Vibius eats it up,raising his arms and soaking up the applause.Maximus watches from the holding cells.  He smiles.The drums continue...EXT.  STREET - NIGHTProximo supervises as a huge banner is unfurled.  Itcovers the side of a tall building.It shows a dramatic painting of Maximus.Proximo supervises happily as torches and braziers are litto illuminate the mammoth banner.The drums continue...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYThe ending of a group fight -- Proximo's gladiatorstriumphant.The crowd waits for the delicious act of defiance.  Wenote many placard and banners honoring "MAXIMUS THEMERCIFUL."Maximus, Vibius, Juba and a few other gladiators toss downtheir weapons and walk off, leaving their opponents alive.The crowd roars.  They have completely embraced Maximusand his fellow gladiators.Gracchus, in the stands, laughs.The drums finally conclude.INT.  PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBER - DAYLucilla is with her HANDMAIDEN.  They sit before a largemirror, the Handmaiden perfecting Lucilla's makeup for theday.One of Commodus' Centurion Body Guards enters, bows.					CENTURION		Madame, the Emperor would like to		see you.Lucilla quickly glances to her Handmaiden in the mirrorand then braces herself, stands, and quickly leaves withthe Centurion.INT.  PALACE - HALLWAY - DAYLucilla strides quickly, nervously, down the long corridorto Commodus' chambers.  She enters...INT.  PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - DAYCommodus is wrapped in a sheet, gazing out a window.					LUCILLA		Caesar...He turns.  She stops.He looks as if he has not slept for days.  If a word couldnow sum up his clouded face it is this:  tormented.She goes to him, embraces him.  He holds her tightly.					COMMODUS		I am sorry to have kept you away...		I needed this time to think...					LUCILLA		Of course...He moves away from her, slowly moving around the room.					COMMODUS		I limited my world to these four		walls so as to let my mind free...		again and again my mind settles on		but one question... What kind of		world are we making when the people		of Rome prefer a slave in the arena		to their father?A beat.  Commodus' strange philosophical bent is unnervingLucilla.					COMMODUS		It is my responsibility to make the		world as it should be.  How is it I		have made this world?					LUCILLA		Brother, do not be influenced by the		mob.  They are a great, faceless		beast --					COMMODUS		They are not "the mob," Lucilla,		they are the people.  They are my		children and all I want to do is		love them.A beat.  He stands before a bust of Marcus Aurelius.  Hetouches it.					COMMODUS		Our father loved Maximus... and I		love him still... yet he defies me,		he tasks me in front of my children.		And they love him for it.  Just as		Marcus loved him for it.  Tell me		why, Lucilla.					LUCILLA		They see themselves in him.  They		throw in their own sad dreams		alongside his.  They think he fights		for them.					COMMODUS		And what do I do but fight for		them?!  I give them games to please		them.  I strangle dissent to give		them peace.  I empower the		Praetorians to give them order.		What more can I do?!A beat.					COMMODUS		Say I should fight him, in the		arena.  Let my children see who the		Gods truly favor.					LUCILLA		And what if he should win?A beat.Commodus continues to slowly move around the room.					COMMODUS		A God is more powerful than a man...This odd statement hangs in the air for a moment.  Then:					LUCILLA		Caesar, you let this unduly worry		you.  At best he is a passing fancy		-- he is a name, an image on a		banner, ephemeral -- he will be		forgotten as the next fancy		appears --					COMMODUS		But I need to know -- why do they		love him?					LUCILLA		Mercy.He stops.  Looks at her.					LUCILLA		He will not kill in the arena.  He		is merciful.  As they all wish they		were in their own hearts.Something in her words has struck a chord in him.					COMMODUS		And for that moment in the arena		they are merciful too.  For a		moment... they are Gods.  Offering		life.He looks at her.					COMMODUS		But who can be more merciful than		the Emperor of Rome?EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYMaximus is fighting a thick GIANT of a man.  A few quickblows and the Giant falls -- like a mighty tree he crashesto the sand.The arena cheers their hero.Maximus stands over the beaten Giant.  The crowd waits forthe famous act.Maximus salutes the Giant and tosses down his sword,refusing to kill.  He walks away.The arena explodes in cheers -- a chant of "Maximus theMerciful" grows to deafening proportions.Suddenly the arena is filled with Praetorians -- theyblock Maximus' exit from the arena -- the crowd boos --horrified --The Praetorians surround Maximus.  He is unarmed, butcoils for the inevitable battle.Then the Praetorians part...And Commodus walks through them.  He carries somethingwrapped in a rich cloth.  Maximus glares at him.The Praetorians move back and the crowd watches eagerly.The Emperor and the Gladiator, at last.Maximus and Commodus stare at each other.  The crowdcannot hear what is said, but strain to observe thisincredible confrontation.					COMMODUS		Brother... we've taken a sad path		since we were children at Capri,		have we not?Maximus doesn't answer.					COMMODUS		For my own part... I am sorry it		came to this.  And to you alone of		all men, I acknowledge my errors.		And my regret.  I shall live with my		sin for all my days.					MAXIMUS		As will I, Commodus.  As will I.Commodus unwraps the cloth bundle.  Inside is a smallwooden sword.  He holds it up so the crowd can see.A collective gasp.  The wooden sword, prized by allgladiators above all else.  Freedom.					COMMODUS		As the first act of my contrition I		offer you the wooden sword of		freedom.He holds out the wooden sword.  A beat.					COMMODUS		Take it, brother.  Stand at my side		as a free man worthy of your		ancestors.					MAXIMUS		I only have ancestors because of		you, brother.  You killed everything		that ever lived alongside me.A beat.					COMMODUS		Take it, Maximus.  Let us heal that		fatal wound together.					MAXIMUS		This is the new home you cursed me		to.  And I am safer here from your		treachery than I could ever be		outside.					COMMODUS		Will you always mistrust me?					MAXIMUS		Why don't you ask your father that?Commodus visibly flinches at that, but still holds thewooden sword out.  The crowd is breathless.					MAXIMUS		I have more power as a slave in the		arena than I could ever have as a		free man.  As the Colosseum goes,		the people go.  As the people go,		the Empire goes.					COMMODUS			(tense)		You think this is power?  I could		show you power, slave --					MAXIMUS		No, Caesar... I will show you.With that, Maximus does the unimaginable.  He simply turnshis back on the Emperor and walks away.And the crowd goes mad.  They cheer the defiant gladiator,their champion.And, equally, they deride the Emperor.  They mock him byholding out food and trash like Commodus is holding outthe wooden sword.  They laugh and jeer.Commodus glances around at his children, lost.Then he turns to the Imperial Box.  He sees Lucillaslipping out the back of the box.  He watches her go.And the crowd continues to jeer.EXT.  STREET THEATER - NIGHTThe crowd laughs riotously as Roman Actors perform atypically ribald comedy in a secluded street:An outrageously dressed version of Maximus is paradingaround on an outrageously dressed version of Commodus,riding him like a donkey and slapping his rear with awooden sword.  The "Commodus" actor mews and brays andwails like an infant.Captain Marcellus of the City Guard gallops past them, onhis way out of Rome.EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - COURTYARD - DAYMaximus stands with Juba and Vibius.  He draws a circle inthe sand with a stick.  He draws a line to the circle.					MAXIMUS		The Felix Regiment will come from		here.  We'll face the body of the		Praetorians outside -- here.  Once		inside, my archers will take up		position to counter opposition		inside the Colosseum.  I'll enter		and join you -- we'll attack here --Maximus draws a line to the Imperial Box.					MAXIMUS		-- a covert assault from within.					VIBIUS		We'll be killed.					MAXIMUS		Probably.A beat.					MAXIMUS		But if we aren't... think of the		glory.  Do you remember glory,		Gladiator?					JUBA		And if we die that day -- we die		free men worthy of our ancestors.					VIBIUS		You didn't know my ancestors.  A		rotten bunch.Maximus points to the huge statue of Mars.					MAXIMUS		Then be worthy of him.  The old		Titan who would rather die bravely		in a just battle than slink off to		grow old and fat.					JUBA		And impotent.A beat.  Vibius thinks about it.					VIBIUS		If I die, I want a hundred whores at		my funeral.INT.  PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBERS - EVENINGCommodus sweeps in.  Thinks Lucilla is standing there.The woman turns, it is Lucilla's Handmaiden.					COMMODUS		Where is my sister?					HANDMAIDEN		She's out, sir...					COMMODUS		Where?					HANDMAIDEN		I... don't know, Caesar.Commodus looks at her for a moment.And then he slowly walks right to her.  His face an inchaway from hers.					COMMODUS		Where is my sister?INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - PROXIMO'S CHAMBER - NIGHTProximo sits, considering Maximus.					MAXIMUS		Was it Centurion...?  General...?					PROXIMO		Captain.A beat.					PROXIMO		How did you know?					MAXIMUS		A soldier knows a soldier.A beat.					PROXIMO		All that was a long time ago.  Too		much wine and too many women.  And		too much money.					MAXIMUS		No --					PROXIMO		This is who I am...			(he pats his ample			belly)		You see?  There was a time I would		stand against ten men and never give		an inch, spitting into the jaws of		Hades all the while.  There was a		time my heart swelled to strap on		the armor of Rome.  But now...Something flashes across Proximo's eyes, something liketragedy.					PROXIMO		Now I am just an entertainer.A pause.					MAXIMUS		You said something to me once.  You		said in this life, we all die.  All		we can choose is how we die.  And		how we are remembered.  Do you		recall those words?					PROXIMO		Yes.					MAXIMUS		Then be remembered proudly.  This is		your time, Proximo.  Stand at my		side and be what you were.  What you		truly are.  One last time.A beat.Proximo suddenly begins to weep rather histrionically --Maximus is a bit taken aback -- Proximo dramaticallyflicks tears from his eyes -- and then can't keep the showup -- he bursts into laughter.Maximus stares at him.					PROXIMO			(laughing)		You might have spared yourself the		speech, General.  The lady Lucilla		bought all my gladiators two hours		ago!					MAXIMUS		You pox-ridden bastard -- !   					PROXIMO		I am the richest trainer in the		Empire!  And I will let my		gladiators do anything you like!		Conspire away, General!Maximus can only laugh as well.					PROXIMO		But I tell you -- if you survive		this madness I want you to go into		business with me.  I'll give you a		quarter of my holdings.					MAXIMUS			(standing)		A quarter?!					PROXIMO		A third.  And not a hair more.  And		you'll have to start in the		provinces!  Cleaning up the lion		shit!					MAXIMUS		You know, if you were half so awful		as you pretend, you'd be a		terrifying man.Maximus shakes his head, smiling, and goes.Proximo sits for a moment.Then he rises and goes to a heavy chest.  He looks at thechest for a moment and then opens it.Inside is his old Lorica Segmentata.  He gazes at hisarmor, considering what he once was.  And what he now is.INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHTMaximus enters.  Lucilla is waiting, extremely tense.					MAXIMUS		Lucilla --					LUCILLA		Don't even say it.  I know it's		dangerous -- but I had to see you.		Captain Marcellus has gone to the		army with your message as you		instructed.					MAXIMUS		Good.					LUCILLA		He says the City Guard will be ready		at the south road at noon.  They can		only wait for an hour so --					MAXIMUS		You've told me this already.					LUCILLA		Did I?  All right then.  So		everything is prepared.  The Senate		will be in attendance and you have		your gladiators -- the usual cohort		of Praetorians will be inside the		arena --					MAXIMUS		Lucilla... why are you here?A pause.					LUCILLA		Tell me honestly... please... do you		think it will work?A beat.					MAXIMUS		No.					LUCILLA		Do you think we'll all die?					MAXIMUS		Yes.She leans against a wall.A pause.					LUCILLA		Will you swear something to me?					MAXIMUS		Yes.					LUCILLA		Will you swear it on the memory of		your son?A long beat.					MAXIMUS		Yes.					LUCILLA		By all that you have ever loved...		swear that if you survive you will		take my son out of Rome.  Swear that		you will go far away and never		return.He steps to her.					MAXIMUS			(deeply)		I will.A beat.					MAXIMUS		And if I should not survive... swear		to me that you will honor my family		in your prayers always.					LUCILLA		I will.A long, difficult beat.  She fights back tears.					LUCILLA		Had I not been the daughter of		Rome...He puts a gentle finger to her lips.					MAXIMUS		Shhh... my heart breaks enough.He holds her closely, tenderly.INT.  PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBERS - NIGHTLucilla enters, deep in thought, still drained from hermeeting with Maximus.She suddenly stops.  Frozen.Commodus is sitting across the chamber, Lucius at hisknee.  An open scroll on Commodus' lap.					COMMODUS		Sister... join us.  I've been		reading to dear Lucius.					LUCIUS		I've been reading too.					COMMODUS		Yes, he's a very smart little boy.		He'll make a grand Emperor one day.Lucilla has not moved.					COMMODUS		Join us, sister.Lucilla goes to them, sits.					COMMODUS		We've been reading about the great		Julius and his adventures in Egypt.					LUCIUS		She killed herself with a snake!					COMMODUS			(to Lucius)		And just wait until you hear what		happened to some of our other		ancestors!  If you're very good,		tomorrow night I'll tell you the		story of Emperor Claudius.  He was		betrayed!  By those closest to		him...			(he glances up to			Lucilla)		... by his own blood... they		whispered in dark corners and went		out late at night and conspired and		conspired...Lucilla looks as if she is going to be ill.Lucius is busy scanning the scroll.  Commodus gentlystrokes his hair, his cold eyes never leaving Lucilla's.					COMMODUS		But the Emperor Claudius knew that		they were up to something dire.  He		knew they were busy little bees.		And one night he sat down with one		of them and he looked at her and he		said:  "Tell me what you have been		doing, busy little bee, or I shall		strike down those dearest to you.		You shall watch as I bathe in their		blood."  And the bee knew he spoke		the truth, for the Emperor always		speaks the truth.  And what do you		think happened then, Lucius?					LUCIUS			(still pouring over			the scrolls)		I don't know, Uncle.					COMMODUS			(glaring at Lucilla)		The bee told him everything.Lucilla's face is tortured.INT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - PROXIMO'S CHAMBER - NIGHTProximo is asleep -- a sound outside wakes him -- thesteady clip-clop of horses on stone.  A lot of horses.He rises and goes to a window overlooking the streetoutside.A stern Praetorian Guard cavalry unit is cantering intoposition at his gates.  Proximo grabs his clothes --EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHTWith cool military precision the Praetorians take upposition at the gates before Proximo's compound, anunassailable line.  They quickly prepare their bows.Meanwhile, another Praetorian unit has taken up positionat the other end of Proximo's compound -- sealing thatentrance as well.EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - COURTYARD - NIGHTProximo is hurrying across his open courtyard when thefirst flaming arrow arches into the compound -- it isfollowed by hundreds more --The Praetorians on either end of his compound keep up aceaseless hail of flaming arrows -- everything begins toburn -- the caged gladiators are stirring now --shouting --Proximo races to his panicked guards --					PROXIMO		Release them!  Release them all!		ARM THEM!The guards sprint to the cells -- unlocking the gladiatorsas quickly as they can --Not quick enough for many -- Praetorians are now pouringpitch through the gutter that runs along the bottom of thecells -- igniting it and incinerating all those trappedinside --The compound is soon a raging inferno --Proximo releases Maximus and Juba --					PROXIMO		Come --					MAXIMUS		But --					PROXIMO		If you want to live -- follow me --					VIBIUS			(calling to them)		Go, Spaniard!  We'll show these		Roman dogs how gladiators fight!   Proximo hauls Maximus and Juba off as Vibius and the othergladiators arm themselves --INT.  TUNNELS - NIGHTProximo is leading Maximus and Juba quickly through adecaying cramped tunnel.					PROXIMO		All the old gladiator schools have		tunnels to the Colosseum -- most		have long since collapsed --					JUBA		How did they know?					MAXIMUS		We were betrayed.					JUBA			(stops)		I'll stay here.  In case they		follow.Maximus stops as well.					JUBA		Go!  Bring us the army!Maximus nods.					PROXIMO		Quickly --He leads Maximus down the disintegrating catacomb oftunnels --EXT.  PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHTVibius hoped to die fighting -- he never got the chance.It is not a battle, it is a slaughter.The Praetorians ruthlessly shoot anyone even approachingthe gates -- all the walls are covered -- most of thegladiators die in the hellish inferno -- the relentlessrain of flaming arrows continues --Vibius coughs in the thick smoke and rages for someone tofight -- Praetorian snipers cut him down -- he diesreaching for the statue of Mars.INT.  COLOSSEUM - SUBTERRANEAN - NIGHTProximo and Maximus emerge deep in the bowels of theColosseum.					PROXIMO			(points)		Down that corridor is the butchery		-- the blood sloughs lead to the		Tiber.  Gods watch over you.					MAXIMUS		You're not coming?					PROXIMO		They are killing my men!He races back into the tunnel.Maximus moves quickly down the corridor.  He can finallysee...INT.  COLOSSEUM - BUTCHERY - NIGHTGrisly carcasses of every description hang from hooks.Two bored butchers hack them up.  The good bits are tossedinto a wagon to fed to the Colosseum animals.  The wasteand offal are shoveled into a large sewer opening.  Abutcher occasionally lifts a sluice-gate and a gush ofwater flows into the sewer from above, washing down theblood and carcasses.Maximus crouches and creeps through the nightmare ofhanging carcasses and flies.When the butchers are looking elsewhere, Maximus creeps tothe sewer opening and climbs in -- he immediately slidesdown for a few yards in the slanting, slippery bloodsluice -- out of sight --Then he thuds to a stop.  He can go no further because theremains of an animal carcass blocks his way.  He tries toslither past the carcass --Finally, one of the butchers above lifts the sluice-gateand a torrent of water flows down.Maximus is washed down the hideous sewer.INT.  TUNNELS - NIGHTProximo and Juba are quickly marching back down the tunneltoward the compound -- they are very close now -- the roarof flame is heard -- the creak of falling timber -- andthe screams of burning men.  They run.They round a corner and see there is no way past the worldof flame ahead of them.  The tunnel to the compound hascollapsed.					PROXIMO		Gods... they're killing them all.Proximo leads them up a cramped stairway to...EXT.  STREET OUTSIDE PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHTThey emerge through a sewer entrance -- right into thearms of the Praetorian Guard.  Proximo and Juba are bound.Proximo sees his compound burning.  Sees the Praetorianarchers taking out any last survivors.  Hears the screams.INT./ EXT.  VARIOUS LOCATIONS - ARREST MONTAGE - NIGHTA quick sequence of brutal arrests as Praetorian Guardunits round up many associated with the plot.  And manythat are not.GAIUS' BEDROOM:  Gaius and his wife are yanked awake andhauled out.CHRISTIAN HOME:  A congregation of Christians is chainedtogether, their secret altar smashed.CAFE:  Greek Scholars are hauled away from their scrolls.STREET THEATER:  Actors are dragged off in the midst of aperformance.GRACCHUS' STEAM ROOM:  Gracchus is enjoying grapes withhis handsome catamite.  A unit of Praetorian bursts in.Gracchus looks at them.  Sighs.INT.  PALACE - THRONE ROOM - NIGHTCommodus stands with Lucius on a balcony overlooking thecity.The roaring flames of the fire at Proximo's compound caneasily be seen.					LUCIUS		What is that fire?					COMMODUS		Why that's a bonfire, Lucius.  I		arranged it just for you.He puts his hand on the boy's shoulder.Behind them, Lucilla sits slumped in a chair.  Her face isa mask of anguish at what she has been forced to do.Two Praetorians enter with a bucket.					PRAETORIAN		Caesar...Commodus goes to them.  He talks quietly with them for amoment and glances at what they are carrying.					COMMODUS		Oh... that's for my sister.They bring the bucket to Lucilla and set it before her.Commodus ignores her and goes back to Lucius on thebalcony.Lucilla glances inside the bucket...Captain Marcellus' head is floating in brine.  Lucillamoans.  All is lost.EXT.  TIBER RIVER - NIGHTMaximus splashes to the surface of the filthy Tiber,gasping for air.Animal carcasses float up next to him.  He grabs onto oneand floats down the gently flowing river.EXT.  ITALIAN FRONT - CAMP - DAWNThe Wolf of Rome sleeps.  Then its ears rise.  Then itshead.  It sniffs the air.  The wolf slowly rises andbegins loping through the camp.It passes slumbering soldiers and tents, smoke lazilydrifting up from campfires.The wolf finally stops and looks up.Maximus is on a horse.  He climbs down.  The wolf goes tohim and licks his hand.Maximus begins marching through the camp, the wolf at hisside.  Soldiers stir, amazed to see their General isalive.Gallus leaps up, stunned, and goes to Maximus.  Theycontinue to march through the camp, more and moreastonished soldiers joining them.They march toward the large tents at the center of theencampment.Titus emerges from his tent.  Slams to a stop --					TITUS		By all the Gods...He goes to Maximus and embraces him.					MAXIMUS		Old friend...					TITUS		You're returned from Hades!  By all		the Gods!					MAXIMUS		Where is he?Just then Quintus emerges from the largest tent.  Hestares at Maximus, unbelieving.A long beat as they look at each other.Quintus knows his destiny.  With quiet dignity he beginswhispering a prayer.  Maximus moves to him, embracing him:					MAXIMUS		I forgive you.He stabs Quintus with a dagger as he embraces him.Quintus falls.A beat.Titus goes to the dead Quintus and pulls the seal ofoffice from his uniform.  He hands it to Maximus.An enormous roar of celebration from the Felix Regiment.INT.  PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - MORNINGA castrati choir sings a gentle hymn of celebration.Their eerie voices and otherworldly harmonies undulatearound Commodus' bedroom.The Emperor himself is in a chair, wrapped in a robe.  Hisbody slaves work over him closely.He is staring into a mirror, lost in another world as theslaves carefully apply golden eye makeup to him.The castrati hymn continues...EXT.  OUTSIDE THE COLOSSEUM - DAYThe hymn is all we hear as we see crowds moving into theColosseum...It seems that all of Rome is here for this great day.Huge throngs of citizens move like a massive wave towardthe Colosseum entrances.  Vendors are doing briskbusiness.  Praetorian units in full dress uniform canterpast.We elegantly float up along the outer tiers of theColosseum and then glide over the edge to see the arenastands...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAYThe hymn is all we hear as we see...   The stands are filling.  We see the rich and poor alike.We see the orator Cassius.  We see Senator Falco and mostof the Senate.  We see the cohort of fifty Praetoriantaking up position around the Imperial Box.A golden platform, with stairs down to the arena sand, nowextends about twenty feet from the Imperial Box to a spotover the arena.We float down the stairs and then we see the arenaitself...It is stunning in its simplicity.The days victims are tied to posts in the center of thearena.  Suspended above them is an enormous cloud.  Athick, tumescent bladder painted to look like athreatening rain cloud.We see Proximo and Juba.  We see Senators Gracchus andGaius.  We see Gaius' wife and Gracchus catamite andChristian families and scholars and actors.Seven stylized hills surround them.The hymn comes to its soaring conclusion as we see thedamned.TIME CUT:Later.  By now, the Colosseum is packed.  All fifty-fivethousand seats are taken.  Another ten thousand standwherever they can.  A feral anticipation buzzes throughthe crowd.Outside the Colosseum, the streets are crowded withthousands more who couldn't get in.Trumpets blare.Commodus' six Centurion Body Guards stride into theImperial Box.Then Commodus enters.  He is shrouded in a full lion'sskin, the head of the lion concealing his own.  His headis down, he does not look up.Lucilla and Lucius enter after him and sit.  Lucilla'sface is drained, her eyes defeated.  Lucius is wearing aminiature set of Lorica Segmentata, complete withceremonial dagger.EXT.  ROMAN STREET - DAYA mangy dog is slowly crossing a dusty street on theoutskirts of Rome.  The street is deserted.  It seems thatalmost everyone is at the Colosseum.The dog stops.  Looks up.Then a sound is heard.  The steady cadence of horses'hooves.The Felix Regiment rounds a corner.  Maximus leads thecavalry.  He wears Lorica Segmentata.  His corps ofarchers and soldiers follow.  They troop down the dustystreet.Maximus and the cavalry canter past the mystified dog.QUICK CUTS:The Felix Regiment moves through the streets.  The fewpedestrians quickly disappear into shops and aroundcorners.  The roar of the Colosseum can be heard far inthe distance...Arrows slice into isolated Praetorian sentries.  The FelixRegiment continues its stealth invasion...Finally, Maximus reins his horse and his troops stop.The mounted City Guard are waiting.Without a word, the City Guard joins Maximus and the twocombined forces continue their inexorable march to theColosseum.EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAYCommodus, still swathed in the lion skin, his head down,slowly walks out on the platform that now extends from theImperial Box.The crowd grows hushed.Commodus reaches the end of the platform and waits for amoment.  Then he dramatically flings off the lion skin.The crowd gasps.He is almost naked, his entire chiseled body is painted ingold.  His eyes are lost in an eerie reverie as he looksaround at his people.He finally speaks:					COMMODUS			(serene)		Rome... This is the day that was		foretold.  This is the day when your		father takes away all fear...			(he holds up his			hands)		With these hands I shall destroy		your enemies so that you may sleep		always and forever in peace.  From		this day forth let it be known that		I, Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus,		have surmounted mortality.  That I,		Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus,		assume my destined place... at the		side of the Gods.The crowd is stunned.  A few scattered laughs.Lucilla stares at him, disbelieving.					COMMODUS		And as a righteous God, I shall ever		protect you.  I shall cradle the		world on my benevolent hands and		clasp it to my heart.  So I have		spoken!  And let the heavens tremble		at my might!EXT.  ROMAN STREETS - DAYMaximus continues to lead the combined Felix Regiment andCity Guard cavalry through the streets.  The roaring iscloser now.  They are nearing the Colosseum, they can justglimpse the edge of the top tier over some building.EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAYCommodus continues:					COMMODUS		This day I reclaim Rome for her		people.  I shall give you the		rebirth of your Empire!  Reborn and		cleansed of her enemies!He raises his arms.  At his cue the Praetorian archersraise their bows, ready, aiming at the victims.					COMMODUS		I will make a new Rome!  Founded as		it was at the beginning!  Archers --		GIVE US BLOOD!The Praetorians suddenly point their bows higher andfire --They shoot the cloud -- the bladder EXPLODES and thickblood rains down on the victims -- the blood splashes overthem, coating them.EXT.  OUTSIDE COLOSSEUM - DAYThe roar from the Colosseum is now deafening as Maximusand the City Guard round the final corner -- the Colosseumis before them -- the massive Praetorian Guard force iscaught of guard -- with crisp military efficiency theFelix Regiment and the City Guard quickly canter intoplace, an unbroken line of seasoned warriors facing thePraetorians.The huge mob outside the Colosseum is confused, intrigued,watching the face-off.  The mounted archers of the FelixRegiment have drawn their bows.Maximus looks down from his horse at a Praetorian Officer.					MAXIMUS		Throw down your weapons or we will		kill you.A beat.The Praetorian Officer glances at the formidable forceagainst him.  He drops his sword.  His men follow suit.					MAXIMUS			(he turns to his men)		FELIX REGIMENT!  DO HONOR TO YOUR		ANCESTORS!  I SALUTE YOU!He spurs his horse and the Felix Regiment roars, springinginto action -- they gallop through the crowd and to theColosseum -- meanwhile the City Guard disarm and guard thePraetorian --EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAYCommodus continues:					COMMODUS		As it was at the beginning so is it		now.  The great She-Wolf of Rome		will again suckle us, again ravage		our enemies -- AND BRING US A WORLD		REBORN!At his cue, two elevator platforms rumble into view,rising from the bowels of the Colosseum to the arena sand.On each platform is a cage full of ferocious wolves, theysnap and growl, straining to be released.					COMMODUS		So it was for Romulus and Remus,		sons of Mars, so shall it be for us!		The great She-Wolf will --Suddenly -- the huge wooden doors of the arena burst openand Maximus leads the Felix Regiment cavalry thunderinginto the arena.The crowd is stunned -- Commodus is stunned -- Lucillabolts up --Commodus immediately spins to Lucilla, his eyes burning --His Praetorian are momentarily confused --At Gallus' command the Felix Regiment archers let fly --multiple arrows and bolts cut through most of thePraetorians -- some confusing skirmishes as the remainingPraetorians fire back --Maximus leaps from his horse and begins cutting theprisoners free --Meanwhile, Commodus strides back down the platform towardLucilla in the Imperial Box, murder in his eyes --She suddenly hugs Lucius quickly and kisses him --					LUCILLA		Remember your mother.She pulls the ceremonial dagger from his little uniformand pushes him to his attendant -- his attendant pulls himaway as --Lucilla spins to Commodus -- he grabs her into an embrace-- he turns the knife on her -- thrusting deeply as hekisses her --A long kiss as he holds her tightly to him.  Then hegently sits her down on her throne.  Her eyes wide, dying.One of Commodus' Body Guards grabs him:					CENTURION BODY GUARD		Caesar -- we must go -- !Commodus' six Centurion Body Guards begin hustling him outof the Imperial Box --					COMMODUS		GET THE BOY!He grabs Lucius from his attendant and drags him off --They try to escape out the back of the Imperial Box -- butFelix Regiment troops are blocking their way -- racing uptoward them --					CENTURION BODY GUARD		THIS WAY, CAESAR!Below, through the confusion, Maximus sees Commodusescaping with Lucius down through a side tunnel.Maximus cuts Juba and Proximo free.  Juba immediatelysnatches up a sword.  Maximus quickly offers a sword toProximo.					MAXIMUS		Captain?Proximo takes the sword.					MAXIMUS			(re: Commodus and			the others)		Where are they going?!					PROXIMO		This way!They race across the arena and into a tunnel...INT.  COLOSSEUM - BOWELS - DAYProximo leads them through a series of catacombs -- damptunnels shoot off in every direction -- everywhere aroundthem the heavy machinery of the games rise like mammothcreatures to the arena above -- a baroque network of ropesand pulleys and counterweights and elevator platforms andair shafts and blood sewers -- And they suddenly rundirectly into Commodus, dragging Lucius, and his sixCenturions coming the other direction.The final battle begins with no preamble --Maximus launches himself forward -- instantly separatingCommodus and Lucius -- he slams at Commodus with his sword-- Commodus slams back --Proximo and Juba race into the six Centurions -- a wildfree-for-all as they prove their worth as warriors -- Jubafights with his usual elegant precision -- Proximo fightsas a man reborn, alive again --Proximo takes cagey advantage of his knowledge of thissubterranean world -- spinning around machinery andleaping over blood sewers and swinging heavycounterweights --Maximus and Commodus hack at each other with all the fierypassion in them -- Commodus is a perfect match for Maximusand equally ruthless -- their swords thrust and parry andslice at amazing speed -- one false move, one mistake,means death --Meanwhile, the battle is turning into a victory for Jubaand Proximo -- they are defeating the Centurions --Commodus sees this -- and sees Lucius crying in acorner --He screams to one of his remaining Centurions:					COMMODUS		KILL THE BOY!Maximus whirls to Lucius -- Commodus attacks -- slashingMaximus' shoulders -- Maximus sees Proximo racing to tryand save Lucius as he spins back to battle Commodus --A Centurion raises his sword to kill Lucius -- Juba killshis final opponent, turns -- Proximo just manages to pushLucius out of the way -- the Centurion's sword slices intohim --Juba flings his sword across the room -- the finalCenturion falls --Maximus sees Proximo collapse to a wall -- dying --Proximo locks eyes with Maximus as he slides down thewall.  The old pirate shrugs.  And is dead.Juba races to Lucius and holds the boy, turning his faceaway from the slaughter --Maximus, his furious passion redoubled at Proximo's death,attacks Commodus with every ounce of strength in him --Commodus' eyes begin to flash with something we have neverseen before, fear.Maximus strikes mercilessly -- forcing Commodus steadilyback until they are fighting atop one of the elevatorplatforms to the arena above.					MAXIMUS		For my wife!Maximus strike hard -- Commodus barely blocks the blow --					MAXIMUS		For my son!He strikes harder -- Commodus is losing --					MAXIMUS		For my father!He strikes with everything he's got -- slashing Commodus-- Commodus sails back -- his sword falling --Maximus stands over him.  Glaring.  Commodus is panting,defeated, glaring up at him.A beat.					MAXIMUS		We who are about to die salute you.Maximus raises his sword high -- Commodus raises an arm --Maximus SMASHES the sword down -- and Commodus is dead.A moment as Maximus stands over Commodus.  Then he looksat the series of counterweight ropes around the elevatorplatform.He slices through one of the ropes and the platform beginsto rise...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAYA trap door springs open and the elevator platform risesto the sand of the arena.  Maximus stands above the deadEmperor.The crowd stares in amazement -- and then begins to cheerin joy at the return of their hero.  A chant begins..."Maximus the Merciful... Maximus the Merciful... Maximusthe Merciful..." which then grows to a refrain of"Caesar... Caesar... Caesar..."Maximus ignores them, his eyes drawn to one sight:Lucilla.He goes to the steps of the platform leading to theImperial Box.  He slowly climbs the steps.In the Imperial Box, Senator Gracchus is standing.  So tooJuba and others.Lucius is kneeling by his mother, holding her hand, hishead down.  Lucilla is dead.  Lucius mourns with quietdignity.Maximus looks at Lucilla and kneels.  He takes her otherhand.  A long moment.  He looks at Lucius.Then he slowly bends forward and kisses Lucilla deeply,the ritual farewell.He stands.Senator Gracchus steps to him:					GRACCHUS		General, the purple is yours if you		so desire.  The Senate will support		you.Maximus looks at him.  And then at the people.  The chantof "Caesar... Caesar... Caesar..." is like a powerfulbeating heart.Maximus moves to the edge of the Imperial Box to addressthe people.  The crowd grows silent.Maximus looks around at the blood of the arena.					MAXIMUS		Rome... you are better than this.		Look inside yourselves.  I challenge		you to find your true voice.  Help		the Senate speak for you.  Make them		your champion... And dare to think		what could be.A beat.					MAXIMUS		I give you back the dream.With that he slowly turns and walks down the steps to thearena sand.  The crowd is absolutely silent.He goes to Titus:					MAXIMUS		When everything has calmed down,		lead an orderly withdrawal.  Take		them home.Titus salutes.Maximus return the salute and then leaps onto his horse.As he canters toward the exit he turns for one final lookat Lucilla.He sees that Lucius is now at the foot of the stairs, onthe arena sand, gazing at him.Maximus stops his horse.He canters back to Lucius.  The boy looks up at him.  Amoment between them.Lucius thrusts up his hand.  Maximus grabs his hand andswings him onto the horse behind him.A look to Juba.  Juba bows his head with respect.Farewell.Maximus spins the horse around and begins cantering out ofthe Colosseum.Juba disappears into the crowd.Maximus and Lucius canter across the arena and through thehuge doors...EXT.  COLOSSEUM - DAYFrom high above we see Maximus and Lucius riding out ofthe Colosseum and disappearing into the streets of Rome.								FADE TO:EXT.  VINEYARD - DAWNMaximus stands with Lucius at his old vineyard.It is still scorched and dead, weeds overgrowing thevineyards, the house ruined.Maximus puts a hand on the boy's shoulder, this boy solike his own son.					MAXIMUS		It doesn't look it now... but soon		we'll have it growing again... Next		year there will be vines, and then		there will be grapes... It will be		alive.We leave them, dreaming of the future.								FADE OUT.					THE END