HELLRAISER II : HELLBOUND Screenplay by Peter Atkins Original Story by Clive Barker 2nd. Draft November 1, 1987FADE IN:1 TITLESThe screen is composed of large, straight-edge areas of blackand white that rest against each other in a manner that suggestssome kind of pattern, without making a final sense; it is as ifwe are too close to something that, could we see it from adistance, would be clear to us.These areas shift and change - both their own shape and theirrelationship to their neighbors. New patterns are being made,new solutions found - but they are just beyond our comprehension.The effect should be aesthetically pleasing but simultaneouslyfrustrating and, perhaps, a little unsettling.Shortly into this sequence, and subsequently inter-cutthroughout, we begin to see, in FLASHBACK, the story ofHELLRAISER. Arriving first as very short shock-images, thesebrief sections eventually convey to the audience all thenecessary emotional and narrative information they will need tounderstand the background to HELLBOUND.Meanwhile, the black and white shapes are still moving, theunseen patterns still shifting.Over this constantly mobile background, the TITLES begin toappear.As the TITLES unroll, another change comes over the puzzle piecesbehind them. Where before they moved and related only in twodimensions, gradually we see that they are now claiming depth aswell. The puzzle we are looking at is now a three-dimensionalone. The pieces are now solid blocks of various geometricshapes, locking together, moving apart, finding their finalposition.Finally, as the TITLES come to their conclusion, the camera pullsback until we can see clearly what we have been looking at. Asthe final piece clicks into positions we see it is THE LAMENTCONFIGURATION from HELLRAISER.The closed box rests before our eyes a moment and then the circlein the centre of the side that faces us gives way to an imageof a dusty street with a market. Simultaneous to this, the cameraTRACKS into this image until it fills the screen2 EXT A STREET BAZAAR DAYThe TRACK continues up through the market and then turns throughthe stalls to find a store behind them. As we TRACK through thestore's doorway, we pass through a beaded curtain thatmomentarily reminds us of the TORTURE ROOM in HELLRAISER.3 INT. STORE DAYOnce we are in the store itself, though, this impression disappears.It is an ordinary, slightly seedy, junk shop.The stall seems to sell an odd mixture of items; native trinketsshare space with second-hand items from European colonists. Thesesecond-hand goods give us some sense of period. They suggest thelate 'twenties/early 'thirties. This is reinforced by thesounds coming from one of them, an old-fashioned mahogany-casedwireless. A foreign voice speaks from it in a language we don'tunderstand, though perhaps the words "BBC world service" arediscerned in the middle, and then a dance-hall tune of the periodbegins to play. (Depending on availability, it would be nice tohave something relevant - 'I'll follow my Secret Heart', perhaps,or 'Dancing in the Dark'.)Into shot comes an ENGLISH OFFICER. His uniform, too, suggeststhe 'twenties, the last days of Empire. He is tall, thin, anddark-haired, but at no stage do we see his face clearly. Hestands in front of the stall.The TRADER suddenly stands behind the counter. He has beencrouched beneath it, as if checking or preparing something. Heis a big, impressive-looking black man. His face is totallyimpassive as he stares at his customer.Neither of the men speak. Obviously, a deal has already beenstruck and today is the pay-off.The OFFICER, a little arrogantly - suggesting racist contempt,slaps down a bag of gold on the stall's counter.Keeping his eyes firmly on the OFFICER, he reaches beneath himand brings something up from under the counter and places it Inthe OFFICER'S outstretched hand. He is holding a LAMENTCONFIGURATION.The OFFICER turns and leaves. The camera TRACKS out of the store,looking at the TRADER as he watches the departing OFFICER.4 INT THE OFFICER'S QUANSETT HUT DAYIt is typical of temporary military quarters, complete with acurved ceiling of corrugated material. It is stripped of furniture.The blinds are down.The OFFICER, still in uniform, sits cross-legged, the BOX heldbefore him.He is already well into the solving process and very soon afterthe shot begins the BOX begins to speed its own solution.Finally, two sections of the BOX shoot upwards and begin to peelapart from each other, ready to reveal its secret.The OFFICER, suddenly nervous, drops the BOX and scuttles backacross the floor to stare at it. The BOX lands upright, itsextended parts still open above it. For a beat of two, nothinghappens. We become aware of the OFFICER'S pulse, throbbingexcitedly on the soundtrack.5 INT THE OFFICER'S QUANSETT HUT DAY OFFICER'S P.O.V.Slowly we, the camera, and the OFFICER, move towards the still,silent, but menacing BOX.We approach it until finally we are above it, looking down intothe opening it has made in itself. There is undefined movementinside.Suddenly, something flies up directly at us. We glimpse it onlybriefly, but enough to see its nature. Unlike the hooks thatflaw at FRANK in HELLRAISER, this is more organic than metallic.Pink and flesh-like but on a long gray-blue stalk, itflies upward, its lips peeling apart gapingly to reveal scores ofyellow, discoloured, and viciously sharp teeth-like hooks.The OFFICER screams and the screen begins to take on a red tintso that, just as the thing is about to fill the screenwith its hungry mouth, the entire screen turns red.The red screen is held for a second and then suddenly becomescomplete blackness.6 INT BLACK SPACEThe black screen continues and, rising slowly from it and fallingback slowly into it, in a dream-like, surrealistic manner, comevarious images of the OFFICER'S torment/pleasure in Hell.By various camera tricks, such as step-printing or opticalblurring, his face is still not clearly seen, but is seen enoughfor us to see his sensual, almost orgasmic responses to what isbeing done to him.Cuts appear spontaneously across his face, leaving a grid likecrisscross pattern of wounds.Finally, a disembodied hand gripping a hammer drives nails intoeach corner formed by these wounds and, as the face comes intofull view for the first time, we realize who this is. It isPINHEAD from HELLRAISER.PINHEAD'S completed face floats on the blackness and stares outat us. PINHEAD (echoed & slow) Kirsty, come to daddyThe tiny silence following PINHEAD's words is shattered by apiercing and terrified scream.7 INT HOSPITAL ROOM NIGHTThe scream continues, but the blackness is replaced by KIRSTY'sanguished face; it is she who is screaming. The scream subsides,replaced by breathless panting accompanied by rapid eye movement. RONSON (off camera) Ah, you're awake. Good.We pull out to see that KIRSTY is sitting up, fully dressed, on ahospital bed. RONSON, a police detective, sits on a plain woodenchair, which is the only other piece of furniture in the room.The walls are bare save for a piece of primitive art on one wall,and, on another, a circular barred window looking out.RONSON stands up and walks to the foot of the bed. He rests hishand on the bed's metal frame and smiles a perfunctory smile. RONSON Tell you what - we'll make a deal. I'll tell you what I know, then you tell me what you know. O.K.?KIRSTY is still re-orienting herself. She blinks a few timesand then focuses on RONSON's hands gripping the bed. RONSON O.K.?KIRSTY looks up at RONSON's face and then around at the room. KIRSTY Where am I? RONSON You're in the Malahide Institute. It's a psychiatric hospital. But, hey, don't feel judged - it was just the nearest place to bring you. Remember? You and your boyfriend... ? KIRSTY Steve... RONSON Don't worry. He's O.K. We sent him home hours ago. Jeez, what a story.He puts a cigarette in his mouth and lights it. RONSON What was it, kid? Smack? Angel dust? Don't tell me acid's back in fashion? KIRSTY What are you talking about? Who are you? RONSON Oh, excuse me...RONSON reaches in his jacket and flashes an I.D. RONSON Ronson. Homicide. I'm this district's slash and dash expert. Made a career of the nasty ones. That's why I was at your Dad's house. Jesus, what a mess.KIRSTY'S eyes prick with tears. She looks away from RONSON. KIRSTY (to herself) Daddy...8 INT JUNK ROOM LODOVICO STREET NIGHTCORTEZ, a POLICE OFFICER, shifts some unpacked crates toallow a closer look at the shriveled and deformed corpse of oneof FRANK and JULIA'S victims. CORTEZ Jesus...CORTEZ prods at the corpse with his night-stick, attemptingto turn it over. A stream of maggots pours from the mouth andthe cavity that used to be its throat.CORTEZ jumps back in disgust and knocks against one of theseveral wardrobes in the cluttered room. Another corpse fliesout at him, as decayed and flvblown as the first.CORTEZ draws his gun and empties it blowing the corpseshead off, scattering flesh, mucus, and bone - but no blood -everywhere before realizing it is already dead.He realises what he has done and lowers his weapon sheepishly. CORTEZ Oh. shit...9 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM DAYRONSON is sitting back in the chair, looking at the now slightlycalmer KIRSTY. RONSON We got two missing people and a house full of corpses.He holds out his hand towards KIRSTY in a theatrical manner. RONSON Talk to me.KIRSTY swings her legs off the bad, but remains sitting on it,her feet on the floor. She doesn't look directly at RONSON butbegins to take in the (few) details of the room for the firsttime. KIRSTY I thought Steve had talked to you? RONSON Oh, pardon me. I obviously didn't convey my hesitation to take his story at face-value. No, YOU talk to me. But - do me a favor? - none of this DEMONS crap.KIRSTY closes her eyes, almost wincing, as memory comes.KIRSTY opens her eyes. Consciously, she slows the rhythm of thedialogue down. KIRSTY He talked about Demons, huh? RONSON Yeah.KIRSTY turns her head to look directly at RONSON. KIRSTY It's true. All of it. It's all true.RONSON stares at her, impressed by her conviction and intensity.There is a second of shared silence.Suddenly, a shocking ELECTRONIC CRACKLE shatters the mood. RONSONstarts, then realises it is the radio at his belt. He snatches itup and speaks into it. RONSON Ronson.10 INT BEDROOM LODOVICO STREET NIGHTAnother OFFICER, KUCICH, is standing, radio in hand, by theblood-stained mattress. CORTEZ stands beside him, gun now safelyre-holstered. KUCICH Kucich here,sir. We just found another one, though it suffered a little...KUCICH looks at CORTEZ, who looks embarrassed. KUCICH ...er, accidental damage in discovery. Anyway, just about the only portable evidence we've got here - apart from human remains - is the mattress. Looks like someone was messed up real bad on it.11 INT HOSPITAL ROOM NIGHT KUCICH (off-camera) Can we send it downtown?RONSON throws KIRSTY a look of exasperation with his colleague.The camera stays on KIRSTY's face as RONSON speaks. RONSON What the hell are you asking me for? Tag it. Move it. KIRSTY (to herself) The mattress... The mattress... JULIA.Without waiting for a reply, RONSON switches the radio off andclips it back to his belt.12 INT BEDROOM 55 STREET NIGHTWe are looking at the mattress. KUCICH has left the room.CORTEZ draws a pad from his packet. The pad is stapled, andthe staple has been badly inserted and is not closed property.In the act of tearing a label from the pad, CORTEZ catcheshis thumb on the staple. OFFICER Shit!The label is adhesive-backed. CORTEZ licks it and pressesit on the mattress. He writes on it - 55L/E1. As he stands upfrom doing this, a single drop of blood from his thumb lands onthe mattress. (It is important that we see it is only a singledrop - and nothing like the amount LARRY spilled on thefloorboards.)CORTEZ leaves the room to fetch a colleague to help himmove the mattress. We move in to see the drop of blood disappearvery quickly into the mattress, as if it is being sucked in.As this happens, we hear on the soundtrack the faintest RUMBLE.13 INT OPERATING ROOM NIGHTA somewhat antiquated and frightening operating room, filledwith machines, monitors, and surgical instruments. The corners ofthe room fall away to shadow.Sitting upright in the centre of the room is a FEMALE PATIENT.She is awake and staring out at the camera. Twin probes/clampsare in each of her ears to hold her in place. Her head is shavedand the skin on the back of her head has been cut open and peeledapart. The flaps of the skin are held away from the area beingworked on by four clamps. (we never actually see round to theexposed brain itself)Immediately behind her, and probing with professional skill andcoolness into her exposed brain, is DOCTOR MALAHIDE. He is inhis late forties and looks like all the great doctors look -rational, civilized, competent, and powerful. There is anintensity in his eyes and the lines of his face though thatsuggests something more than normal.The room has several attentive listeners and observers, but theone nearest to MALAHIDE is his personal student/assistant KYLEMACRAE, young, conventionally good-looking, with an open,friendly, face.MALAHIDE is holding forth on the secrets of his trade, several timeslooking away from his patient while still working on her, to makesure his audience understand his points. MALAHIDE We can bring them back properly more often than scientific orthodoxy dictates, ladies and gentlemen. And the knife, far from the enemy of of analysis, is often its greatest ally in solving the puzzles of psychosis. Analysis isolates and massages. Surgery pinpoints and corrects. ... though you've got to know what you're doing, of course...Polite laughter from several students. MALAHIDE Some things are obvious. Here, for example, ...He prods in at a specific area. MALAHIDE ...are the optical motor nerve control centers.The PATIENT begins to blink in time with MALAHIDE'S prodding.The affect is half-comical, half-distressing. Perhaps MALAHIDEcarries it on just that half-second too long for innocentdemonstration. But the students give impressed murmurs anyway. MALAHIDE Now. This case. A deeply-buried psychosis severe enough to produce frighteningly frequent hysteria and aggression. Incurable. Say others. Not so. Analysis isolates. The knife exposes. Medication controls.As he speaks, MALAHIDE injects a syringe directly into thePATIENT's brain. Her face spasms momentarily.MALAHIDE stands back slightly. His face is serene, calm, andconfident.He takes a small, motorised drill and sets to work on the brain. MALAHIDE And then, ladies and gentlemen, we REBUILD. With all the care and knowledge that our years of training have given us ...He looks around at them all, smiling slightly. MALAHIDE ... WE BRING THEM BACK.The students murmur their approval. Perhaps they even applaud.MALAHIDE acknowledges their reaction with a modest nod.Suddenly, an intercom on the wall cuts in. INTERCOM Dr. Malahide, the new arrival is awake, and appears very distressed.MALAHIDE steps back briskly and begins to peel his cloves off.He nods at a nearby student. MALAHIDE My part in this is over. You may tidy up for me. Kyle, you come with me.MALAHIDE and KYLE leave the room.14 INT HOSPITAL ROOM NIGHTKIRSTY has her hands over her face and is shaking. RONSON standsand crosses to her. He takes her hand from her face and calmsher. RONSON Easy, easy. Whatever happened, whatever you saw, it's not here now. KIRSTY I saw it...him. But I got away. And I took the box. And I solved it. And they came. RONSON Who? KIRSTY The Cenobites.She stares directly at RONSON, daring him to disbelieve. KIRSTY The Demons.RONSON stares back, perhaps a glimmer of belief in his eyes.On the soundtrack, the sudden and shocking sound of a door beingslammed open and hitting the wall.KIRSTY screams. Even RONSON is startled.In the doorway are DOCTOR MALAHIDE and KYLE. MALAHIDE advancesinto the room, smiling apologetically as he does so. MALAHIDE Sorry. Must get that door fixed. Detective Ronson?MALAHIDE holds his hand out, as RONSON nods in response. MALAHIDE I am Doctor Malahide.The man shake hands. MALAHIDE gestures behind him. MALAHIDE My assistant, Kyle Macrae. And this must be Kirsty?MALAHIDE speaks quickly, as if to get the formalities out of theway. As he says her name, he smiles benignly at KIRSTY who,still distraught from her memories and shocked at the slamming ofthe door, simply stares at him.MALAHIDE turns his attention back to RONSON, drawing him away andspeaking to him in a lower voice.Meanwhile, KYLE walks over to KIRSTY and smiles at her - longenough to embarrass her into smiling back. MALAHIDE I've read the boy's statement. Quite the adventure they believe they had. I'd like to talk to her alone. Do you think ... ?RONSON looks over his shoulder at KIRSTY. He then lookscarefully at MALAHIDE and then nods slowly. RONSON Mmmm. O.K. Frankly, I think she's more your territory than mine. Shame.RONSON looks back at KIRSTY. RONSON Kirsty. Doctor Malahide's going to look after you now. Maybe we could talk some more tomorrow.KIRSTY nods vaguely and then, just as RONSON reaches the door,calls out to him. KIRSTY Wait! The mattress. You've got to destroy it. She DIED on it, you see. The mattress. It's haunted now. She can come back... like Frank. SHE CAN COME BACK.RONSON smiles helplessly at her, then glances at MALAHIDE with a "you see what I mean" expression, and leaves the room. KIRSTY (to herself) The mattress ...MALAHIDE stares at her briefly, with a strange expression on hisface and then abruptly follows RONSON through the door.KIRSTY is too absorbed to notice this odd behavior, but KYLEstares incredulously as MALAHIDE leaves the room. KYLE Uh...excuse me a moment.He follows to the door and stands in the doorway, looking downthe corridor.15 INT HOSPITAL CORRIDOR NIGHTRONSON stands before a set of double-doors, talking to aUNIFORMED OFFICER.MALAHIDE comes into view, walking swiftly, and instantly talksover their conversation. MALAHIDE Detective. I'll be able to help this girl. But I need your assistance ...16 INT HOSPITAL CORRIDOR NIGHTLooking back at the corridor, we see the door to KIRSTY'S roomajar, and KYLE standing by it looking down.17 INT HOSPITAL CORRIDOR NIGHT (KYLE' P.O.V)A LONG SHOT of MALAHIDE and RONSON. KYLE, and we, are too faraway to hear what is said, but MALAHIDE in nodding and gesturingemphatically, as if persuading RONSON of something.18 INT HOSPITAL ROOM NIGHTKYLE returns into the room and closes the door. His expression ispuzzled, troubled. Then he remembers there is a patient here andhe smiles. KYLE So...You're Kirsty, huh? KIRSTY You a doctor, too?KYLE smiles again. KYLE Nearly a doctor. I'm Kyle Macrae. Call me Kyle.KIRSTY draws a deep breath, temporarily calmed. She even managesa smile. KIRSTY Hi, Kyle.MALAHIDE re-enters the room. MALAHIDE Now, Kirsty...KIRSTY looks at him warily. KIRSTY The cop. He didn't believe me. MALAHIDE I suspect not. But that doesn't necessarily mean you're wrong, does it? KIRSTY Do you believe me?MALAHIDE offers a re-assuring laugh. MALAHIDE Well, I don't know yet. However, you're not lying. YOU believe this is the truth. KIRSTY It IS the truth.Suddenly, the door opens again. An INTERN is standing there. Forthe briefest of moments, MALAHIDE looks furious and then,catching himself, assumes his calm demeanor. MALAHIDE Well? INTERN Sorry, Dr. Malahide. But it's Tiffany. She's escaped ... again.MALAHIDE sighs. MALAHIDE Very Well.He looks down at KIRSTY. KIRSTY I'm sorry, Kirsty. Kyle will come back with something to help you sleep. We shall speak tomorrow.MALAHIDE and KYLE follow the intern from the room, KYLE giving alast friendly smile as the door closes behind them.19 EXT. CARNIVAL NIGHTWe are staring down the midway of a deserted carnival. On eitherside, stalls and rides beckon to pleasures that their lockeddoors and tarpaulin-draped entrances deny. A light rain isfalling.A huge wooden cut-out of a grinning clown dominates one stallwhile the sign beneath him seems to state the ethos of the wholeplace; LOTS 'O' FUN.Another has a banner proclaiming FREAK SHOW, with the subheadingYOU'LL GASP AT THE GEEK!On the horizon in the distance, almost denying the reality ofwhat we are seeing, tower vast cranes of unimaginable heightwhile beyond them impossibly huge oil-drums squat against themoon-bright but cloudy sky.Into shot, and running down the midway, comes a girl, TIFFANY.TIFFANY is a girl in her early teens but looks youngerthen her years due to her boyish figure and her slightly over-delicate features.For the last months, TIFFANY has been finding ways out of theinstitute and making her way here, where she has one specialobsession, which we will soon see.Following her into shot, but many yards behind, come two INTERNSfrom the Institute. They contrast each other almost comically,one being tall and plump while the other is smaller and thinner.They're not quite the Stan and Ollie of the medical world butwith some serious rehearsal they could get there. 1st INTERN Oh, Jesus -she's gonna make it.Even as the first INTERN says this, we see TIFFANY make a sharpleft turn into a stall entrance.20 EXT. HALL OF MIRRORS ENTRANCE NIGHTA front view of the stall into which TIFFANY has run. The largesign above it proclaims 'HALL OF MIRRORS' and a smaller signperched above a distorting mirror to one side of the entrancesays 'YOU'LL BE AMAZED'.The two INTERNS enter at a run.21 INT. HALL OF MIRRORS NIGHTThere follows a hopelessly one-sided pursuit through themirror maze as TIFFANY effortlessly eludes the two INTERNS.There are three major facets to this sequence;1) Comic relief - as the two interns make fools of themselves.There could even be a room of distorting mirrors where the thinINTERN becomes fat and the fat one thin.2) TIFFANY'S ease and expertise with patterns and puzzles.3) Confusion of the audience's sense of the real and the unreal.This goes on long enough for us to realise the 1ST INTERN wasright to worry, how long TIFFANY could elude them. Then,jarringly, as the screen is full of reflected TIFFANYSthere suddenly appears amongst them a single image ofMALAHIDE.Everything stops.The image of MALAHIDE (and we shouldn't he sure yet if we'relooking at a reflection or the real man) puts its hands out,palms up. MALAHIDE Tiffany. Come.All the TIFFANYS move quietly toward him until they all disappearfrom view. Then the real TIFFANY comes into shot, her back to us,and walks toward what we now see to be the real MALAHIDE, who isstanding in a doorway deliberately framed like a mirror toconfuse the customers.TIFFANY places her hands docilely on to MALAHIDE's outstretchedones.22 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM NIGHTKIRSTY has been dozing fitfully, but is awakened by strangenoises. At first terrified, she slowly realises it is simplysomeone being put in the room next door.She waits until activity has ceased and then moves to her door.It is unlocked. She moves out into the corridor.23 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR NIGHTLooking warily from side to side, KIRSTY edges out into thecorridor, along it, and then stops by the door of the adjoiningroom.24 INT. TIFFANY'S ROOM NIGHT C.U.A hand fits a piece of jig-saw puzzle into the space it belongs.We know it is a jig-saw by the shape of the pieces, but it isclearly not the conventional type - a picturesque photo - becauseall we can see at this close-up angle are large areas of blackand white.25 INT. TIFFANY'S ROOM NIGHTWe now see that the puzzle is on the floor of a room of a similarsize to KIRSTY'S. It is slightly more decorated; It has curtainsand wallpaper. And a tiled floor. Sitting cross-legged on thefloor next to the puzzle is TIFFANY.The puzzle, which we can now see more clearly, is an intricateabstract design in black and white. There are several piecesstill un-fitted but TIFFANY is working steadily, efficiently, andwith complete concentration.On a wall behind her there is a visual record of her progressover the last few months. Sealed in plastic by staff members are.Puzzles she has solved, with dates marking her advancement. Theybegin with the simplest wood block animals usually given to verysmall children. passing through photo-puzzles of increasingdifficulty, and culminating in one or two other examples of thekind of complicated pattern-work she is involved in now.26 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR NIGHTWe pull out to see that this is KIRSTY'S P.O.V. from the glasspanel in the door of TIFFANY'S room.TIFFANY looks up at one point and eye-contact is made. KIRSTYgives a tentative smile and a small wave. TIFFANY stares at her.The stare is long but unresponsive and finally TIFFANY returns tothe puzzle.KIRSTY has her back to us and the camera is quite close in when ahand suddenly moves into shot and touches her shoulder.KIRSTY jumps back in alarm, fear on her face. But it is onlyKYLE.KYLE raises his hand in apology. KYLE Oh, Jesus, I'm sorry. God, if anyone should know not to do that, it's me. I'm sorry. O.K.?KIRSTY nods and gives a nervous smile. KYLE, still embarrassed byhis foolishness and eager to change the subject, nods towards theglass panel. KYLE Sad, huh? She's been here six months. Her name's TIFFANY. KIRSTY What's the matter with her? KYLE Almost complete withdrawal. She hasn't said a word for nearly two years. KIRSTY God, that's terrible. KYLE Yeah. Doctor Malahide's got her doing these jig-saws and things, though. Says it's helping to bring her out.KYLE ushers KIRSTY back into her own room.27 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM DAYAs he closes the door to KIRSTY's room, KYLE reaches into thepocket of his lab-coat and produces a small box of pills. KYLE Anyway, let's concentrate on you for a moment. Wanna suck on this for me?KIRSTY looks up at him sharply. He is proffering a pill andgrinning facetiously. KIRSTY Hey, good joke, Kyle. Do you always come on to the mentally ill?KYLE's face falls. He blushes. Pressing the pills into KIRSTY'shand, he backs off to the door, apologising. KYLE Shit. Sorry. Here's the pills. Red face. Door. Bye.He exits hurriedly, closing the door behind him. KIRSTY grinsdespite herself. She looks at the pill for a second or two andthen puts it firmly back in the box. Realising there is nobedside table, she puts the box on the wooden chair. KIRSTY Jesus, I'm glad I'm not paying for this place.She is about to lie down on the bed, when she senses something iswrong in the room.KIRSTY is instantly tense again. She swings her head to the sideand tenses in horror, stifling a scream.In the corner of the room, against the wall lying in a pool ofblood, is her skinned father LARRY.KIRSTY emits a pained moan of pure anguish as she realises whatshe is looking at. KIRSTY (under her breath) Daddy...The thing in the corner raises its arm weakly from its side andbegins to write on the wall in its own blood.It writes : I AM IN HELL; HELP ME.KIRSTY covers her eyes with her hands and begins to sob.KIRSTY takes her hands from her eyes.The figure has gone. The pool of blood has disappeared. But, onthe wall the words remain.KIRSTY makes herself rise from the bed and walk slowly across theroom.Her eyes full of tears, she stretches out her arm and touches theword 'I'.As her fingers make contact, the words instantly disappear.She presses her bloodied finger quickly to her lips before thatlast trace of her father can vanish, too.28 INT. TIFFANY'S ROOM NIGHTTIFFANY is still sitting up cross-legged, weeping. Her puzzle iscompleted.29 EXT. THE INSTITUTE DAYBasically an establishing shot to show it is the next morning butit also serves to show MALAHIDE walking briskly to work. His suitis tasteful and simple, but discreetly expensive-looking. Hewalks with purpose and looks straight ahead, acknowledging onlywith polite nods the respectful greetings of various JUNIORDOCTORS and NURSES he passes on his way. He enters the institute.We should also see several patients being walked, or wheeled,around by STAFF during this shot. MALAHIDE (off-camera) And how are we feeling today...?30 INT. LARGE WARD DAYThis is a large, traditional hospital ward with a line of bedsdown each long wall and a wide central aisle.Nearly all of the beds are occupied and, at the far end of theward, there is a male patient in a wheelchair.All the PATIENTS' eyes turn immediately and happily to MALAHIDEas he crosses the room, continuing his speech. MALAHIDE Better? Good.He-doesn't stop his progress but walks straight through the roomand into the corridor.As the door closes behind him the WHEELCHAIR PATIENT scowls. W/CHAIR PATIENT 105 years and he still doesn't know my name.31 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR DAYMALAHIDE walks swiftly down the corridor in which we saw him talkto RONSON earlier, but this time the camera follows him throughthe double doors and further down the corridor.He enters an elevator and the doors close in front of him.32 INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR DAYMALAHIDE exits the elevator into a lower corridor, one not socarefully decorated.We are in the area in which the more deeply disturbed of theInstitute's patients live.The rooms are smaller, closer together, and there is anobservation panel set in each door.MALAHIDE looks into the first four rooms.In the first, a middle-aged, overweight woman sits completelymotionless in the middle of the floor. She is dressed in ashapeless white robe and is sitting crosslegged. Her head isshaven, her eyes are rolled completely up into the sockets sothat only white shows.In the second, a very thin man of about thirty is pressed astight as he can be into one corner of the room. His hair is longand he has a full beard. He is naked but not unadorned - his bodyand much of his cell wall is smeared in excrement.In the third, a man of about MALAHIDE'S age-stands in the centreof the room. He is of normal build but his head is shaved. Hisface, scalp, and hands are covered in self-inflicted andamaterurish tattoos- all of crosses. He is dressed in T-shirt andjeans. With both hands he holds aloft a silver crucifix, pointingit in all directions, as if under constant siege by Devils. Hemutters prayers and invocations constantly.In the fourth, a man in his early twenties restrained in astrait-jacket. He shuffles around on the call-floor, his eyestwitching and flitting from one part of his body to another. BROWNING (muttering) Get them off me. Get them off me.Off-camera, we hear the sound of KIRSTY's sobbing - which bridgesthe CUT TO:33 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM DAYKYLE enters, having heard KIRSTY crying. She is sitting with herlegs over the side of the bed with her face in her hands.KYLE immediately sits next to her and puts an arm around hershoulder. He doesn't force her to speak. He lets her let thetears out. Finally, she looks up. KIRSTY I...I had a visitor. KYLE What? KIRSTY Oh, Jesus. I can't explain. It's ...it's. I don't know how to help! I have to save him and I don't know how to help! KYLE (Carefully) Kirsty, I'm sorry... don't understand. I... KIRSTY I know. No-one can. But I have to save him. Where's the other doctor? He said He'd listen. He promised.KYLE responds quickly to this. His faith in MALAHIDE isstrong, despite that curious incident of the previous night whenMALAHIDE followed RONSON out of the room. KYLE Dr. Malahide. Yes. Look, I'll fetch him. You take it easy. I'm sure he can help.KYLE stands up, making soothing motions with his hands, and headsfor the door. KIRSTY Help. No, no-one can help. I just want someone to listen or I WILL go crazy. KYLE If anyone can help, HE can.KIRSTY turns and gives KYLE a strange look as he opens the door. KIRSTY Yeah? He got a ticket to Hell?34 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR DAYWe TRACK with KYLE down the corridor, eventually reaching animpressive door, which is slightly ajar. Even before we reach it,we hear MALAHIDE's voice. He is clearly on the phone. Because ofthe nature of what he is hearing, KYLE pauses when he reaches thedoor, listening with a confused expression on his face. MALAHIDE (off-camera & gradually fading up) Officer Kucich? Yes, Doctor Malahide. You've spoken to Ronson? Yes ... That's right. The mattress ... No, I'll meet you by the side entrance. No, no, my HOUSE. Yes, let me make that clear. The house, NOT the hospital. ... Yes ... Fine, and thank you.We hear the phone click. KYLE waits a moment and then walksswiftly through the door, speaking as he does so. KYLE Doctor Malahide ... ?35 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM DAYKIRSTY'S face fills the screen. Her voice is slightly dreamy, asif she is still trying to understand herself the story she isabout to tell. KIRSTY It must have been going on forever...Her voice trails off. We pull out to see KIRSTY sitting up on herbed. MALAHIDE on the wooden chair, and KYLE standing by thedoor.MALAHIDE's voice pulls her back. MALAHIDE Kirsty...?KIRSTY snaps back and continues to speak in a more normal voice. KIRSTY But the part I know about, That must have started with my Uncle Frank... MALAHIDE Then let us speak of it ...DISSOLVE TO36 EXT. MALAHIDE's HOUSE TWILIGHTWe TRACK in slowly towards a modern house that we will learn isMALAHIDE'S, up the drive, towards the front door.DISSOLVE TO37 INT. MALAHIDE'S HALLWAY TWILIGHTThe TRACK continues along the hallway and into the OBSESSIONROOM.38 INT. OBSESSION ROOM NIGHTThe TRACK continues.The room is dim, lit only by stray shafts of moonlight.On the floor in the centre of the room is the mattress.The TRACK stops. A main light is clicked on and MALAHIDE movesinto shot. MALAHIDE pours himself a scotch from the decanter thatsits on the writing table and approaches the mattress.He is clearly very, excited. He walks around the mattress two orthree times, never taking his eyes off it.He walks back to the writing table, throws his drink back, putsthe glass down and leaves the room.39 EXT. MALAHIDE'S HOUSE NIGHTMALAHIDE leaves through his front door and walks toward thehospital.40 INT. OBSESSION ROOM NIGHTAfter a few seconds silence we hear a repeated clicking sound, asif something is being forced, followed by a louder snap and thesound of a sash window being opened.The curtains balloon inwards, part, and KYLE steps into the room.He stands still for a moment, as if making sure he is alone, andthen begins to take in his surroundings.The room is entirely devoted to MALAHIDE'S secret obsession -with the Paranormal in general and the Lament Configuration inparticular.It is a fair-sized, square shaped room. Prints, paintings, andphotographs cover the walls. All of these pictures relate in someway to his obsession; photographs of ghost-sightings; portraitsof magicians from Cagliostro to Crowley; prints of arcane symbolsand pentagrams, etc.Specifically, we recognize a print that resembles very closelythe jigsaw he has had TIFFANY recently solve. Also, there areframed diagrams (which look very old) of the Lament Configuration-Both open and closed.On a long, low table there are three glass cases. In each ofthese cases is a Lament Configuration. On each case is a smalllabel giving a location, a date of acquisition, and a number -which we may assume to be the number of deaths attributable tothat specific box.These labels read: CAIRO 3/4/'59 7 LYONS 6/2/'72 4 NEW YORK 12/3/'81 5There are also, on a small desk-top bookshelf on a writing table,editions of MALAHIDE'S own books. He seems to have spent hiscareer publicly denying what he is privately obsessed with -because the books titles include 'Possession: Not Demons butDisease','The Myth of the Diabolic', and 'The Internal Inferno'. KYLE Jesus Christ. Jee-sus-kerr-ist!We assume he has visited MALAHIDE'S house before, but he hasclearly never seen this room.He stares at the mattress with incredulity, as if he still can'tbelieve his superior has had it brought here. Then he begins tolook around the room in more detail. He approaches the glasscases and bends slightly to look at their contents.KYLE shakes his head. KYLE Oh, shit.41 INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR NIGHTMALAHIDE walks past a bank of meters and huge circuit breakers onhis way to the lower and of the corridor, by the cellsof the very disturbed. He stops by the cell of the man in thestrait-jacket. We hear from the outside the familiar muttering ofBROWNING. MALAHIDE enters the call.42 INT. BROWNING'S CELL NIGHTAs MALAHIDE enters, BROWNING looks at him. His eyes demand, notplead, and he speaks through clenched teeth. BROWNING Get them off me. Get. Them. Off. Me.43 INT. OBSESSION ROOM NIGHTKYLE is rooting through the drawers in the writing table.Generally the contents are unremarkable - handwritten notes, afew patients case-files etc. - but in one of the drawers hefinds a black ring-binder which he takes out and lays on thetable.It is a book of faces. There are about fifteen sheets in thebinder. Some of them are genuine photographic prints, somephotocopies of original photos. They range widely in age, race,and sex. They are all full-face portraits. Chronologically, therange is extensive too. Some pictures (generally photocopies)appear to date from the earliest days of photography, the late1880's, others have an Edwardian appearance, or suggest the1920's. Only one or two seem to be less than thirty years old.KYLE flicks back and forward in the book, wondering on thesignificance of these people.He is lost in the musings when the click of the front door tellshim MALAHIDE has returned.KYLE closes the book and quickly slips it back into the drawer.He heads rapidly for the window he came in through but realisesMALAHIDE is too close for him to open it and make good hisescape. Instead he stands between the window and the curtains,pulling the latter closed over him.MALAHIDE enters the room, leading BROWNING who is still strait-jacketed.44 INT. BEHIND THE CURTAIN NIGHTWe see KYLE standing very still in the limited space behind thecurtains. It is clearly seen that, given the thoroughness withwhich he closed the curtains and his immobile position, he isunable to see what is happening in the room. He can hear, but notsee.45 INT. OBSESSION ROOM NIGHTMALAHIDE leads BROWNING across to the mattress. Standing besideit, he unbuckles and removes the strait-jacket from his patient.BROWNING, beneath the strait-jacket, is naked to the waist. Hisarms and cheat are a mass of scars of various age and size.MALAHIDE gestures to the mattress. Now that his arms are free,BROWNING is scratching furiously. MALAHIDE Mr. Browning. Please, lie down.BROWNING lies down, still scratching, trust and hope in his eyes.46 INT. OBSESSION ROOM BROWNING'S DELUSION (BROWNING'S P.O.V.)As if looking through BROWNING's eyes, we see his body stretchedout before us on the mattress.The naked chest and arms are covered with raised lumps, red andpainful-looking.As his scratching arms attack these lumps, they break open,revealing vile black insects that have hatched beneath his skin.BROWNING brushes these away while he scratches at the remaininglumps.47 INT. OBSESSION ROOM NIGHTBROWNING has already re-opened some of the more recent scars, andblood slowly rises to the surface of his skin.MALAHIDE walks over to his writing tableland goes into one ofthe drawers.He produces an old-fashioned cut-throat razor and walks back toBROWNING MALAHIDE Here. This will help.He proffers the razor. BROWNING siezes it. MALAHIDE steps backquickly, a mixture of anticipation and apprehension on his face.BROWNING slashes at his body and left arm with a short, sharp,slicing motions. In his mind, he is lancing the cysts thatcontain the tormenting insects. In reality, he is inflictinghorrifying damage on himself.Blood pours from the multitude of wounds, running over his bodyand down onto the mattress.Suddenly, without any preliminaries, two painfully thin, flayed,mucus-covered arms shoot out of the mattress, one on either sideof the still-busy BROWNING.They wrap themselves tightly across his chest and crush himtightly to the mattress, as a head, similarly wasted, oozes outof the mattress to the side of BROWNING's head.Beneath his delusions, BROWNING suddenly has an inkling of what ishappening to him. His eyes widen and his mouth opens ready toemit a scream but the monster beneath him forces a hand over hismouth as it buries its face into the soft flesh of his neck.Two legs now rise from the oozing slime that the bloodstains onthe mattress have become. They too wrap themselves aroundBROWNING so that he is held tight.Finally, with titanic effort, he gathers enough momentum to rollcompletely free of the mattress and falls to the floor beside it.The thing on his back now is pulling free from the bed ofbubbling, frothing slime that the mattress now is with a sliding,slurping sound.The monster's face is now deep in the flesh of his throat, andeven as BROWNING forces himself up first onto one knee and then,very unsteadily, onto his feet, we can see him wasting away - hisface losing its fullness and colour, his chest sinking in onitself.The creature, which is still wrapped around him and clingingtight is, unlike him, growing in stature by the second. Musclesare inflating, arteries pumping more vigorously, and flesh itselffilling out.Its horrific thin-ness when it first appeared effectively unsexedit but now, as its regeneration continues, the fullness of itships, the roundness of its thighs, and the sacs of fat and musclethat bloom above its ribs confirm its female nature. If there wasany doubt that this was JULIA, it is now disappearing.BROWNING is now nearly a walking corpse and it is the strength ofhis will alone that allows him to take a few faltering steps withJULIA still enveloping him. With the desperate strength with whichshe clings to him and the way her legs are wrapped around hiships, it is like an obscenely perverse parody of sexual passion.MALAHIDE has been watching all this with an incredible mix ofemotions playing across his face. Still human enough to feel bothfear and disgust at what is happening he is nevertheless awestruck and exhilarated. He has waited all his life for such anirrefutable demonstration of the power and the truth of thesupernatural.Similarly, the scientist in him is fascinated by the livinganatomy lessons that JULIA's regeneration and BROWNING rapiddecay offer.With one last dying effort, the now-almost-husk-like BROWNINGbreaks JULIA'S grip and makes a futile step forward as she fallsfrom him. He totters towards the curtains.Just as the audience think he will pull them down with him,revealing KYLE, JULIA grabs his ankle and pulls. He falls back tothe floor.48 INT. BEHIND THE CURTAINS NIGHTThe loud noise of BROWNING's fall renews KYLE's resolve to seewhat is going on. Carefully, he shifts his position so that hecan see through a small gap in the curtains.49 INT. KYLE'S P.O.V. NIGHTKYLE may have heard one or two strange and unpleasant noises butBROWNING has not screamed nor JULIA spoken; nothing has preparedhim for what he sees - a skinned woman sucking out what liferemains from the dried husk of a psychotic man.50 INT. BEHIND THE CURTAINS NIGHTKYLE's head jerks back, shaking as if he's just had an electricshock. His mouth moves but no sound emerges. KYLE (mimed) Jesus Christ!His terror simultaneously urging speed and silence, KYLE gingerlymaneuvers himself out of the window.51 INT. OBSESSION ROOM NIGHTJULIA lies back satisfied on the floor. She looks up weakly atMALAHIDE. JULIA Help me.Her voice is perfect. MALAHIDE stares at her, his fascinationintense. He crosses the few yards that separate them. He looks ather, lying beside the hollow shell that was CHEYNEY. Her eyesstare back, brilliant, sparkling, alive. JULIA Help Me.MALAHIDE realises her temporary vulnerability; all the life forceshe has absorbed from BROWNING has made up her body, but it willtake some moments for the strength to return to her.Fascinated and sympathetic as he is however he cannot yet quitebrine himself to touch this creature. Instead he moves themattress nearer to her, allowing her to crawl back onto it andlie down again.MALAHIDE stares down at her. He attempts a smile, but is toonervous to make it convincing. He is trembling slightly. Thiscontact with the beyond is something he has dreamt of for years,but nevertheless the physical reality is overwhelming.JULIA treats him to the approximation of a smile. She is far fromnervous.She studies herself. Her figure is fully formed, her womanlinessundeniable. All she is missing is a skin. She stretches her arms.She lifts her legs. She writhes on the bed in pleasure, like an X-ray photograph of a calendar girl.MALAHIDE stares at her, following the sensual movements of herbody. He swallows, a little embarrassed by his response to thenaked display he is privileged to watch.JULIA'S eyes twinkle at him. JULIA Don't be embarrassed. You're my friend.She looks away and continues her stretching and wiggling, moreconscious of it now as an erotic display.The strength has flooded through her body as she rises to herfeet, and stops off the mattress, smiling at MALAHIDE.MALAHIDE backs away from her as she moves towards him, doing hisbest to return her smile.After a few steps, JULIA stops and simply stares into MALAHIDE'Seyes. He too stops and returns the gaze. The camera circles themslowly several times, studying them - the dressed, nervous manand skinned, confident woman. JULIA Well?MALAHIDE says nothing. Perhaps he swallows nervously. The cameracontinues its circling movements. The scene FADES TO BLACK andJULIA begins to laugh, small, sensual giggles at first buildingfinally as the blackness comes into an almost hystericalcrescendo of raucous joy.52 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM NIGHTKIRSTY is again lying on her back on top of the bed. She is astark contrast to JULIA. No display. No laughter.Her eyes are open and red-rimmed from weeping now. There is alsocomplete silence.All the more jarring, then, the sudden sound of someone fumblingat the handle of KIRSTY'S door.Her eyes widen in alarm and she flings herself off the bed,scanning the room for anything that can be used as a weapon.There is nothing but the chair and she she has all but lifted italoft when she sees that it is KYLE, who comes into the room. KIRSTY Shit, Kyle. This is getting to be a habit. What is it, some kind of shock-therapy?She was angry, relieved, and amused when she realized it was KYLEand all these showed in her voice and face. Now they drop awaycompletely, replaced by a nervous apprehension as she becomesaware of the blank horror on his face. KIRSTY Oh, Jesus. What is it?KYLE opens his mouth a few times, as if unsure what to say. KYLE It's all true.53 INT. TIFFANY'S ROOM NIGHTTIFFANY walks around her room, staring at her completed puzzles -those on the wall and the one on the floor - and waiting for thenext one.FADE OUTFADE IN54 EXT. MALAHIDE'S HOUSE DAYA simple shot tells us it is the next morning.55 INT. OBSESSION ROOM MALAHIDE'S HOUSE DAYMALAHIDE , dressed in a black suit, is in the room, staring atthe empty mattress. We TRACK with him through to his LIVING ROOM.56 INT. LIVING ROOM MALAHIDE'S HOUSE DAYIn contrast to the secret and private obsession room, this roomis the tasteful and upmarket room of the successful professional.It is a long spacious room with modern furniture and white walls.The walls are mostly free of decoration save for two or threelarge canvases of abstract art.The longest wall is broken up only by a low circular table, whichrests against it about half way down. On this table is a verysimple black vase containing a spray of beautiful white lilies.Above this vase on the wall is a large frameless mirror.As MALAHIDE enters, the first thing he sees is a bloody palm-print on one of his white walls. He blinks at it and looks downinto the room. We CUT TO;JULIA. At first it seems she is staring at the lilies, but as weTRACK around her, we realise she is staring at the reflection ofher skinned self.Her face snarls at herself, she roars with rage, forms her handinto a fist and shatters the mirror.MALAHIDE rushes towards her. She swings round and freezes himwith a glance.They hold their positions for a moment, MALAHIDE nervous andJULIA furious, and then JULIA makes herself relax. She sighs,takes a few deep breaths, and then speaks. JULIA I'm cold.TIME CUT57 INT. LIVING ROOM MALAHIDE'S HOUSE DAYCLOSE UP on a strangely Art Deco electric fan heater, with brightred coils emitting waves of heat.We pull out to see MALAHIDE standing by the table with the flowers.There is now a half-full glass of wine on the table, along withan ashtray where a cigarette burns away ignored. A pack ofcigarettes is now visible in the breast pocket of MALAHIDE's jacket.JULIA enters the room and closes the door behind her. She isdressed in one of MALAHIDE'S suits. It is a light weight suit ofwhite linen, a suit for expensive holidays in hot countries.She crosses the room to the table; pausing slightly in the centreof the room, to allow MALAHIDE to look at her. JULIA Well?MALAHIDE'S nervousness has retreated a little, he manages tosmile. He nods his head slowly a few times. MALAHIDE Yes... Yes. You look... JULIA Surreal? Strange? Nightmarish? MALAHIDE No. You look...He pauses, lost for words.JULIA doesn't wait for an answer. She crosses to the table andtakes up his glass of wine. She downs it in one.MALAHIDE stares at her, a little surprised. JULIA Yes, I still like WINE ...She smiles strangely at him and then moves closer. Slowly,keeping her eyes on his, she reaches into his breast pocketfor his packet of cigarettes and places one in her mouth. JULIA ... and more.For a moment, MALAHIDE's face is stone. Then, slowly, he returnsher smile and, drawing his lighter, lights her cigarette.58 INT. SHOPPING MALL DAYA large multi-level shopping complex obviously up-market andexpensive.We see MALAHIDE, riding up one on the central escalators, lookingaround him as he does so, as if searching for a specific shop.He reaches the next level and begins to walk along one of theseveral avenues that lead away from the central square containingthe escalators.He walks past several shops, looking in their windows; a chicspecialty shop, a window full of clocks, a cutler's. Finally,he stops in front of one. He stares at its display window.The window is classily minimal. There is in fact only one dressin it. It is an exquisite white cocktail gown. The gown is fulllength but quite tight-fitting, merely flaring a little frombelow the knee, and has a halter-neck.MALAHIDE walks into the shop.59 INT. MALAHIDE'S BEDROOM DAYWe are looking at a reflection of MALAHIDE in the large mirrorthat covers the inside of his wardrobe door. His real hand andhis reflected hand come together at the edge of the door and tipit slightly, changing the image that the mirror shows us.Now we see JULIA. She is in the dress from the shop in the mall.It is a perfect fit and shows her figure off very well. Being ahalter-neck, however, her skinned arms and shoulders arecompletely bare. Also, it is quite low cut at the front, exposinga fair degree of visceral cleavage, and at the back.JULIA turns fully around in front of the mirror examining herselffrom every angle. Her mood is unreadable until she speaks. JULIA Close it.MALAHIDE does so. He understands and tries to console her.. MALAHIDE It's a beautiful dress... JULIA I know.TIME CUT59 INT. LIVING ROOM MALAHIDE'S HOUSE DAYCLOSE UP MALAHIDE'S hands applying wide, white, surgicalbandages to JULIA.We pull out as MALAHIDE steps away from JULIA. They are bothstanding in the middle of the living room floor.JULIA'S arms, torso, and head are now completely enclosed inneatly and professionally applied bandages. There are three slitsfor her eyes and mouth but apart from these she is completelycovered. Over these she is still wearing the white dress. MALAHIDE There...JULIA lifts her arms slightly to look at them and then touches herbandaged face. She turns towards MALAHIDE. The camera begins thesame circling movement it made around them the previous night.MALAHIDE'S nervousness has practically disappeared. He has helpedthis woman. He has bandaged her and dressed her. He is slightlyin awe of her, but it is now tinged with excitement, not fear.The camera's circling grows faster. MALAHIDE Well?JULIA walks towards him, slowly raising her hands. When she isclose enough her hands cup his cheeks. She pulls him towards her,and, tipping her head to one side, kisses him. Her body mouldsitself to his.She leans her head back. Were they have kissed blood has pressedup onto the bandage from her skinned flesh. It looks like smearedlipstick. JULIA Well?MALAHIDE puts his arms around her waist. They kiss tenderly.Slowly, almost nervously, he lowers his hands until they rest onher buttocks and presses her in towards him. They begin to spinthemselves now, echoing the camera movements.They cross the room, kissing blindly, until they come to restagainst the wall that bears JULIA's bloody palm print. JULIAtwists their bodies so that MALAHIDE is pressed against the wall,and begins to move her hips forcefully and sensually againstMALAHIDE.The camera is stationary now, watching without movement asMALAHIDE begins to raise JULIA's dress up her legs, her handon his wrist, helping and encouraging.About halfway up the thigh, the bandaging disappears and theraw flesh is exposed.The kissing and the fumbling continue until they are makingfast and violent love against the wall.His hands clutch tightly at her hips and he pulls his face awayfrom the kissing to loan it on her shoulder so that we see hisface as it grimaces in ecstasy.He cries out and shudders and slowly both their movements stop.He strokes at her back gently and their bodies relax. JULIA (almost coyly) Now all we need is a skin.60 INT. BATHROOM KYLE'S APARTMENT DAYCLOSE UP on shower jets hitting KIRSTY's face and nakedshoulders.Her eyes are closed, but she smiles in pleasure as the waterrefreshes her.A knocking is heard. KIRSTY moves her head out of the water'spath and shouts. KIRSTY Yeah?61 INT. KYLE'S APARTMENT DAYIt is basically a studio apartment - everything except the bathroomfacilities is in the one room. There is a sofa - with sheets andblankets on it - a bed, a dining/all-purpose table with twochairs, shelves full of records and books, and a small workingdesk against one of the walls. The desk is weighed down by textbooks and notes and, tacked to the wall above it, are medical prints,some of the brain and central nervous system, but also two fullcolouredanatomical prints - one of a man and one of a woman. They couldalmost be portraits of JULIA and FRANK.KYLE, fully dressed, is standing by the bathroom door, his handstill in a knocking position. KYLE You O.K.?Silence. KYLE Kirsty? You 0. K.?The bathroom door opens and KIRSTY Comes into the main room,dressed in a toweling robe that is clearly a 'hers' not a 'his'.She crosses the room to a mirror, rubbing at her wet hair with atowel. KIRSTY No bad dreams. KYLE So you slept O.K.?KIRSTY gestures at the sofa. KIRSTY As much as that bed of nails allowed.KYLE glances meaningfully at the bed as he replies. KYLE Well, the sofa isn't often used for sleeping on... KIRSTY Oh yeah? On your own a lot, Huh?KYLE grins. KYLE Like the robe?KIRSTY returns the smile via the mirror.KYLE crosses the room to sit at his dining table. Empty coffeecups, the remnants of a loaf and some cheese suggests theirbreakfast was simple and finished some time ago.KIRSTY gathers her clothes from by the sofa and moves back intothe bathroom to dress.KYLE waits a few moments and then speaks. KYLE I think I need to talk. About what I saw.KIRSTY emerges, fully dressed, her hair still damp. KIRSTY You thought I was crazy, didn't you?KYLE spreads his hands wide. KYLE Jesus, yes! What do you expect. I mean, God, I still do! It's just that now I'm crazy too.He grins wryly. KIRSTY moves to the sofa and sits down. KIRSTY And you're sure it was a woman? KYLE God, I wish I could say no. This is going to do terrible things to my attitude, you know.KIRSTY grins at him. KIRSTY Don't worry about it. Your attitude sucks anyway. KYLE Hey, so for it. Don't let pity stop you. I'm down. Nail me.For a moment, they laugh together but then stop. KIRSTY staresdownward and then suddenly bursts into tears. KIRSTY What can I do? How can I save him?KYLE joins her on the sofa. He offers an arm but she shakes itoff. KIRSTY The box. I need the box. KYLE The box? Like in your story? Like in his house?KIRSTY's tears suddenly stop. She looks at KYLE. KIRSTY (sharply) What? KYLE The Boxes. In the House. I told you. KIRSTY What do you mean? KYLE The boxes! I TOLD you. KIRSTY You DIDN'T tell me. Do you mean Malahide's got... KYLE Yeah. The things you were talking about.KIRSTY heads instantly for KYLE'S door. KIRSTY I'm going.KYLE runs across the room and puts a restraining hand on hisdoor. KYLE Wait a minute. What do you mean, 'I'm going?' TO the HOUSE?KIRSTY nods and pulls at the door handle. KIRSTY Get out of the way. KYLE Are you crazy? KIRSTY I don't know, Kyle. You're the fucking expert. Now get out of the way! KYLE WHY? KIRSTY (shouting) Because I'm going to get my father!Tears start to her eyes and she stares at KYLE defiantly. Thenshe repeats, more softly; KIRSTY I'm going to get my father.There is a two-second silence between them as they stare at eachother.Finally, Kyle backs away from the door, raising a finger. KYLE Two seconds. Just two seconds. Don't move.He rushes across the room, grabs a jacket, and moves back to thedoor. KYLE O.K. Let's go. KIRSTY Kyle, you don't have... KYLE I KNOW I don't have to. It's just my time of the month to be a complete fucking idiot. O.K.?KIRSTY stares at him, her face at first blank then suffused withemotion. She leans across and plants a chaste kiss on his lipsthen pulls back. There is a beat while they simply stare at eachother and suddenly they are tight in each other's arms, kissingfervently. But the kiss is fuelled, not by passion, but by fearand their mutual need for human solace in the face of theunknown.As the kiss continues, the camera pulls back from them.62 INT. THE BLOOD-BOUDOIR DAYCLOSE UP as JULIA (still bandaged) and MALAHIDE come together fora kiss. They part and, as JULIA moves across the room, the camerabegins a long TRACK around the room.First, it reaches a naked GIRL. As catatonic as TIFFANY, she saysnothing but her eyes betray her terror. Her hands are tied aboveher.JULIA moves in towards the girl, her eyes glittering with an alienhunger beneath their gauze mask. As she nears the girl, the TRACKpasses them and moves through the room.MALAHIDE has done his mistress proud. It had been an emptyupstairs room (no furniture, bare floorboards) but now itresembles a nightmarish cross between a butcher's shop and abordello.The camera slowly reveals, as it TRACKS, that there are sevenmore people in the room. Seven dead people. Dried-out husks.The TRACKING is now completing its circle around the room. Afterthe corpses, we return to JULIA and the GIRL - but the GIRL toois now a hollow, dried-out shell.JULIA moves back into the centre of the room and stands still.MALAHIDE crosses the room to her quickly, drawing a wicked-looking kitchen knife from his pocket as he does so. He reachesJULIA and raises the knife to her face.With one swift, precise movement, he slices the bandages acrossthe side of her face. JULIA raises her hand and pulls the maskaway.The camera sweeps in toward her as she does this until her faceis in CLOSE UP as the bandage-mask is pulled aside.Her face is perfect.63 EXT. MALAHIDE'S HOUSE DAYMALAHIDE emerges from his front door. He is still in his blacksuit and looks every inch the respectable professional. He looksneither left nor right but moves straight off, a busy man withthings to do.A few seconds after he has gone off-camera, KYLE and KIRSTYemerge from around the corner of the house.KYLE gestures to KIRSTY to follow him and leads her around to thewindow he broke in through on the previous night.64 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYThe room is much as we saw it last.The window slides up and KYLE pulls himself into the room. Helooks around it carefully. Sure that the monster he saw theprevious night is no longer in the room, he helps KIRSTY inthrough the window.KIRSTY's eyes go at once to the three LAMENT CONFIGURATIONS inthe glass cases. She crosses the room eagerly.KYLE rushes after her and stops her opening one of the cases. KYLE Wait! The .. thing ... I want to be sure it's not here.KIRSTY nods and KYLE leaves the room.65 INT. STAIRS/LANDING MALAHIDE'S HOUSE DAYKYLE advances carefully, and slowly, from the stairs onto thelanding. He looks about him at every step he takes.Ahead of him on the landing is a door, which is very slightlyajar.He advances gingerly down the landing to the door.When he reaches it, he pauses. We see his face working as heponders his choices -should he push it open inch by slow inch, orslam it inwards quickly?Very slowly he moves his hand towards the door. The cameramatches his movement, moving in on his hand, the door, and thespace between.His fingertips are less than an inch from touching the door whenanother hand shoots into view and grabs his wrist.JULIA has crept up beside him on the landing while all hisattention was on the door.KYLE swings round in horror, his mouth opening to scream when hesees that JULIA has her other hand to her mouth, her finger ather lips in a silencing gesture.There is of course, nothing for him to recognize from themonstrous vision of the previous night. JULIA's arms, chest, andface are completely re-skinned now. All KYLE sees is a beautifulstranger in a white dress. JULIA Sssh. I think it's still here. KYLE What? The...The thing?JULIA nods. JULIA Yes. I had to stop you going in there because I knew you'd cry out. Any normal person would. It ...It's just TERRIBLE. KYLE Is it in there? JULIA No. Not now.KYLE swallows, nods, and gently, pushes the door open. He walksinto the room.66 INT. THE BLOOD-BOUDOIR DAYThe camera follows KYLE into the room. He reaches the middlebefore horror and disgust stop him.He hears a click behind him and turns to see JULIA has come intothe room and closes the door behind her. She looks at KYLE. JULIA Was I right? Is it terrible?KYLE stares all around him. All eight victims have been suckeddry. He is surrounded by dead husks.His face is ghastly. He looks like he is about to faint. He nods.His voice is a cracked whisper. KYLE Yes. Yes, it's terrible.JULIA crosses the room rapidly towards him. Her face is apicture of concern. JULIA Oh. You look awful. You poor boy. Come here...As she speaks, JULIA's arms are opening out to him. KYLE sees thecomfort offered and advances towards her, too.As they come together, the camera moves around them and we see,for the first time, that JULIA is still incomplete; Her entireback is still glistening raw flesh, the naked bones of the spinestill clearly visible.Their arms go around each other just as JULIA completes herspeech; JULIA ...Come to Mother ...As KYLE's hands touch the sticky, mucoid meat of her shoulders,it is instantly clear to him what has happened. For a moment hefreezes in terror.His arms fly from her and he throws his head back. But JULIA isvery strong now and her grip does not relax.Kyle's expression is a mixture of terror and confusion as hestares into the beautiful face of the monster.JULIA smiles at him, a hungry, aroused smile. JULIA What's your name?KYLE can hardly speak for fear. KYLE Kyle... JULIA I'm JULIA.She raised one hand from his back to the back of his head andpresses his face to hers.JULIA plays it exactly as a sensual, passionate kiss, her mouthwide open, her head moving rhythmically and sinuously.KYLE's reaction is somewhat different; his arms flail in panic(though only from the elbow - JULIA'S grip prevents anythingmore) and his head makes jerking, backward movements against herpressing hand.The camera moves around the embracing couple until it is behindJULIA.The back of her gown, as we know, is extremely low. As the kisscontinues, we see skin creeping above the line of the gown at thebase of her spine and gradually flowing up her back until finallyit meets and blends perfectly with ragged and raw edges of theskin at her neck and shoulders. JULIA is complete again.While this process has been going on, KYLE has been dying slowlyand horribly in her arms, his lifeforce being sucked into herthrough their open mouths. His body, by the time her back iscompletely formed, is shrunken, hollow, and dried up.JULIA takes her arms from around the corpse of KYLE and stepsback, allowing the husk to fall to the floor.JULIA licks her lips and looks down, not without affection, atthe dead KYLE. She smiles. JULIA Thank you, Kyle.67 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYKIRSTY has found the black ring-binder and laid it on thewriting table.She has separated one of the photographs from the others and laidit out on the table beside the binder. It is the ENGLISH OFFICERfrom the opening sequence. KIRSTY has obviously recognized somethingfamiliar in it but she can't quite grasp it completely.She is still puzzling over it when she suddenly realises thatseveral minutes have elapsed since KYLE left her there. Herhead straightens up and her puzzled look is replaced by aslightly worried one. KIRSTY (to herself) Kyle...?She folds up the photograph and puts it in her pocket.She crosses to the door and opens it. She does not go through itimmediately but stands in the doorway for a moment, her handstill on the door, cocking her head slightly as if listening. KIRSTY (slightly louder) Kyle?She can't hear anything, but she regards that as a bad sign, nota good one. She leaves the room.68 INT. STAIRS/LANDING DAYKIRSTY makes her way up the stairs. Unlike KYLE a little earliershe moves up them quite quickly and advances onto the landing.When she is on the landing and looking at the closed door toJULIA's Boudoir she stops, standing still and staring at thedoor.KIRSTY suppresses a shudder. She bites her lip, takes two orthree deep breaths, crosses to the door firmly, and flings itopen, moving into the room even as she does so.69 INT. THE BLOOD-BOUDOIR DAYKIRSTY moves three or four steps into the room and then stopsdead. The door swings shut behind her.KIRSTY's eyes flick left and right, taking in the sickeningdetails of the room's contents, and then stare straight ahead,focusing on the figure in white which is turning around to faceher.JULIA completes her turn and looks at KIRSTY completelyimpassively for a moment. Then her mouth opens up into a smile ofwelcome - but there is nothing but hate in her eyes. JULIA Kirsty! How nice of you to drop in.JULIA glances meaningfully at the dead thing that lies beside herfeet and then back at KIRSTY. JULIA You have surprisingly good taste in men.KIRSTY's fear and disgust are momentarily displaced by a furiousrage as she realises what JULIA has done. Her face erupts intoanger and she screams out. KIRSTY Kyle! No! I'll kill you, you...She flings herself across the room at JULIA even as she speaks.JULIA is completely unphased by this attack and simply raises onearm. She siezes the wrist of the arm that KIRSTY has raised intoa clenched fist and effortlessly throws KIRSTY bodily back acrossthe room. We realise for the first time the immense physicalstrength that JULIA now possesses.KIRSTY smashes into the door and falls to a sitting positionagainst it. She is shaken and slightly hurt enough not to get toher feet immediately but she stares at JULIA with undimmedhatred.JULIA throws a look halfway between a smile and a sneer. JULIA Oh, you can try it, you little bitch. I'd love you to try it. But I'm not just the woman I was. KIRSTY What, you mean you're something more than a whore with a vicious streak? JULIA I mean I'm something more than human, you little shit!JULIA snaps this first line but then holds her anger in check.She shakes her head and an amused smile plays across her lips. JULIA Oh, Kirsty. They didn't tell you, did they? I'm afraid they've changed the rules of the fairy tale; I'm no longer just the wicked step-mother.The smile disappears and she delivers the next line with anutterly straight face. It is, after all, the truth. JULIA Now I'm the Evil Queen.The hatred and the heat returns to her voice. JULIA So come on; Take your best shot, Snow White.KIRSTY scrambles to her feet and again charges at JULIA.JULIA steps forward to meet her advance and delivers a singleback-handed swipe across KIRSTY's face with such force that notonly is the girl knocked off her feet but is actually knockedunconscious.KIRSTY rolls onto her back and lies at JULIA's feet.JULIA stares down at the unconscious body. When it was awake, itwas KIRSTY and her attitude to it was based on personal enmity.Now, it is simply another body and she judges it differently; itis firm, full, healthy, and young. We see the expression on herface change from hatred and triumph to pure appetite. She licksher lips and her eyes glisten. She begins to bend slightlytowards it. MALAHIDE (off-camera) Julia!The door to the room opens. JULIA straightens up and looks asMALAHIDE stands in the doorway. Her eyebrows question thisinterruption.A second later, and it is explained. He leads TIFFANY into theroom. TIME CUT70 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYTIFFANY sits cross-legged in the middle of the floor. She appearsto be alone in the room. Cradled in her lap is a LamentConfiguration, taken from one of the glass cases on the lowtable.On a wall behind TIFFANY, one of the large prints that previouslyhung there has been taken down.Revealed in the space behind it is a large mirror. The cameramoves in towards this mirror.71 INT. OBSESSION ROOM ALCOVE DAYMALAHIDE and JULIA stand in a tiny and completely bare room. On thewall in front of them is a large window through which we see aback-view of TIFFANY in the obsession room.72 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYTIFFANY looks around the room generally and then turns herattention completely to the LAMENT CONFIGURATION.She picks it up and turns it around in her hands, studying eachof its faces intently.She begins trying to move the interlinked pieces within it. Atfirst she has no success; the box appears to be one solidconstruction with no internal movement possible.She stops her attempts and studies it again for a moment, her facestill impassive. Then she gives a tiny smile and begins again.Her movements are faster now, less tentative.Suddenly, there is a click and one of the panels on-the boxslides out slightly. The little music-box tune begins to play.To TIFFANY this is a marvelous reward - something the jigsawnever offered - and she lets out a little sound in response,somewhere between a sigh and a delighted giggle. It tempts her toeven greater skill and her delighted fingers fly over the box.Another panel moves. Then two more. The tune is prettier andfuller.73 INT. OBSESSION ROOM ALCOVE DAYMALAHIDE stares fixedly through the window, nervous but terriblyexcited. He is breathing rapidly and shallowly.Through the glass, TIFFANY's success continues. Small flashes ofintense blue light begin to buzz around the box. The room growsdarker and cracks begin to appear in its walls.JULIA seems quietly amused - both by what is going on in the roomand by MALAHIDE's heated response to it. She glances from one tothe other, her eyes twinkling. JULIA You're sure this is what you want?MALAHIDE doesn't take his eyes from the window. MALAHIDE It's what I've ALWAYS wanted. A view of ... beyond.He pauses. Perhaps he is being ungallant. He turns slightlytowards JULIA and takes her hand. MALAHIDE You were almost enough, Julia but...I have to see. I have to KNOW.JULIA smiles indulgently. She nods. JULIA Oh, I quite understand.74 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYTIFFANY is completely engrossed in the box. She seems blissfullyunaware of the changes taking place in the room.The cracks have widened in the walls and, in some places, piecesof plaster have fallen away, revealing the slats beneath.Blue light begins to stream into the room, ignoring the geographyof what should lie beyond its walls. Where the light comesthrough the slats, it is as broad beams of light, given contrastby the shadows of the slats. But it also comes through thesmaller cracks and enters the room in intensely bright and verythin beams that criss-cross through the room almost like a laserdisplay.Suddenly, TIFFANY's solution is complete. The central core of thebox rises up and twists itself around into its final position.75 INT. OBSESSION ROOM ALCOVE DAYMALAHIDE takes an almost involuntary step backward. Hisexcitement has now reached the pitch where it is beyond obviousphysical manifestation. He is perfectly still, his face perfectlyimpassive. MALAHIDE She's done it. JULIA She certainly has. MALAHIDE It's coming. JULIA It certainly is.MALAHIDE turns away to meet her eyes.There is a beat or two where absolutely nothing happens.The mirror explodes inwards into the alcove.76 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYThe room is filled with smoke and suffused with blue light.Two of the walls simply part physically, revealing entrances intothe corridors of Hell. These corridors are lined with gray wallsand seem to run for a great distance.TIFFANY still sits cross-legged in the middle of the floor,staring about her in astonishment.Surrounding her, in various parts of the room, are the fourCENOBITES from HELLRAISER.The FEMALE CENOBITE smiles and advances towards TIFFANY.The leader of the CENOBITES, PINHEAD raises a hand. PINHEAD Wait.The FEMALE stops and looks questioningly at PINHEAD.PINHEAD, at a more leisurely pace, crosses towards TIFFANY andlooks down at her. She stares back at him, the remnants of herinsanity a temporary defense against fear, her face registeringnothing.PINHEAD looks up. PINHEAD No.The FEMALE looks across at him. CENOBITE No?PINHEAD shakes his head. PINHEAD No.He glances down at TIFFANY again. PINHEAD It is not HANDS that call us...He looks up and stares directly at the shattered two-way mirror. PINHEAD ... It is DESIRE.77 INT. OBSESSION ROOM ALCOVE DAYThe wall opposite the shattered mirror has also opened up toreveal a way into Hell.MALAHIDE and JULIA are no longer in the alcove.We hear the ringing of their footsteps. They are making their waydown the corridor.78 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYThe four CENOBITES have gone.TIFFANY looks around the room again. She stares from one entranceto the other. Her manner is reminiscent of when she is makingdecisions during her solving of puzzles.79 INT. BLOOD-BOUDOIR DAYKIRSTY is still on the floor in the boudoir of blood. This roomtoo is now suffused with blue light and smoke. There are nogateways to Hell in the walls but there are several cracks in theplaster and these appear to be spreading.KIRSTY moans and opens her eyes gingerly. She puts a hand to herface, rubbing at the place where JULIA hit her.Still a little groggy, she lifts herself slowly to a sittingposition, her legs stretched out. Only when she has blinked a fewtimes, shaken her head, and rubbed her jaw again, does fullconsciousness return - at which point she looks quickly about theroom ( possibly expecting another attack from JULIA) and noticesthe light and the smoke.She has been in this atmosphere before. She knows precisely whatit means. Her mouth opens and her eyes grow nervous again. KIRSTY Oh, shit.KIRSTY scrambles quickly to her feet and rushes through the doorto the stairs.80 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAYKIRSTY enters the room just as TIFFANY is about to go down one ofthe corridors. KIRSTY screams at her. KIRSTY NO!TIFFANY stops, startled, and looks at the doorway and KIRSTY.KIRSTY raises her hands in a placatory gesture and speaks moresoftly. KIRSTY Wait. Wait.KIRSTY begins to move into the room slowly and shakes her headgently. KIRSTY Hey, remember me? From the hospital? I was in the next room?KIRSTY is rewarded with a small recognizing smile from TIFFANY,KIRSTY returns the smile. KIRSTY You don't want to go down there. You REALLY don't want to go down there.TIFFANY turns her head once more to look down the corridor andthen turns back to KIRSTY. For a second it looks as if KIRSTY'spersuasions have succeeded, but MALAHIDE's training has been toothorough; TIFFANY knows a puzzle when she sees one. She smilesonce more at KIRSTY and then suddenly turns and disappears intothe corridor.KIRSTY stands still for a moment, as if she can't quite believethat TIFFANY has done it. She shakes her head - half in disbeliefand half in despair. KIRSTY Jesus Christ.Pausing only to pick up the LAMENT CONFIGURATION from whereTIFFANY has left it on the floor, She heads straight for thecorridor and follows TIFFANY in.81 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHWe are looking straight down one of the very long corridors ofHell.It has the same architecture as the corridor that appeared in thehospital room in HELLRAISER; walls of stained gray stone brokenup by vaguely medieval-looking arches.KIRSTY comes into view, walking away from the camera. Ahead ofher, at an illogically far distance given that she entered thecorridor only seconds before KIRSTY, is TIFFANY.KIRSTY breaks into a slight run, and calls out to the girl. KIRSTY Tiffany. Wait!Her voice has an unpleasant ring in the acoustics of thesecorridors and echos horribly. KIRSTY pulls a face and doesn'tshout again. She increases her pace slightly.Suddenly TIFFANY makes a sharp turn and enters an intersectingcorridor. KIRSTY is forced to increase her speed even more.KIRSTY too makes the turn into another corridor. Even as she doesso, she sees TIFFANY disappearing again into yet anotherintersection.KIRSTY follows and, again, the same thing happens.This happens several times and, always, KIRSTY never quite losessight of TIFFANY but never quite catches up with her either.In short, TIFFANY's instincts were absolutely right; this too isanother puzzle. The girls are lost in a concrete maze, full oftwists and turns and labyrinthine windings.After enough turns have been made to completely confuse KIRSTY'ssense of direction, she makes a final turn into one corridor andsees something different.At the end of this corridor is a blinding white light. As soon asKIRSTY sees the light, the air is filled with beautifulbirdsong.TIFFANY disappears into the light as soon as KIRSTY sees it.Despite the light, despite the birdsong, KIRSTY is stillsuspicious and shouts out. KIRSTY Tiffany! Don't trust it! Don't Trust it!But it is too late. The girl is gone. KIRSTY follows-and vanishesinto the light.82 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHJULIA and MALAHIDE are seen in the corridors of the labyrinth.MALAHIDE's face is full of delight. He is absolutely theenchanted visitor.JULIA, on the other hand, walks with the brisk assurance of oneon familiar territory.The corridors that MALAHIDE sees are different to KIRSTY'S; theyare grotto-like, dotted with stalactites and stalagmites and notimmediately unattractive. The walls contain portals of a glass-like substance at random intervals that emit blooming lights ofdifferent colors and MALAHIDE peers eagerly into several of these.In one, the view is like an aquarium. An alien fish swims past hiseyes. Its body resembles a human brain but it has pincer-like claws.MALAHIDE presses his hand against the glass as the thing comes nearer.Suddenly, from within its body, the thing produces a perfecthuman forearm and hand and meets MALAHIDE's hand on the otherside of the glass.MALAHIDE starts slightly but then keeps his hand there. He isturning his head to call JULIA's attention to this marvel whenthe thing suddenly forms a fist and begins to beat against theglass with tremendous force.MALAHIDE jumps back sharply, but the thing shatters the glass andleaps out at him. He gasps and runs up the corridor, the thinghopping after him on its one hand.As they pass JULIA, she tuts with the slightly exasperated butindulgent tone of a parent or a teacher. She steps on the thing,squashing it flat. It emits a horrible death-cry. JULIA Do be careful.83 INT. HELL'S SITTING ROOM DAYWhite light fills the screen and KIRSTY steps through it intoview. Instantly the White light contracts and disappears.KIRSTY finds herself standing in a beautiful family sitting room.The room is bathed in the warm light of a perfect summer's day.The birdsong KIRSTY heard earlier continues but is, if anything,even more melodic, even more sweet.The room is vaguely Edwardian in its decor; real wood furnishingsand decorative porcelain ornaments. There is a large woodendresser, on top of which are many photographs in old-fashionedbrass frames.Despite herself, KIRSTY cannot resist a smile of pure pleasure atthe appearance of the room.She touches some of the furniture, as if to assure herself it isreal.She approaches the dresser and picks up one of the large framedphotographs. She gasps in pleasure.We see the photograph. It is a family group and looks to be havebeen taken ten to twenty years ago. It is of a man, a woman, anda young girl of four or five.The man is clearly LARRY, albeit a younger version, and thelittle girl has dark, thick, slightly curly hair - just likeKIRSTY'S. The woman is beautiful and has similar hair to herdaughter.KIRSTY's eyes prick with tears - but they are clearly tears ofhappy memories. She smiles. KIRSTY Mommy...KIRSTY puts down the photograph of her family and looks aroundthe room again. A troubled look crosses her face.Despite the aparent Summer light in the room, KIRSTY suddenlyrealises what it is that is odd.She looks from wall to wall with mounting distress on her face.There are no windows in the room. And no door.At this point, the odd discordant note in the birdsong becomesapparent. It is nothing too obvious at the moment - the totaleffect is simply less sweet than it was.KIRSTY looks back at the photograph and snatches it up, with alook of concern.The photograph has changed. It is now a wedding photo. Thewedding of LARRY and JULIA.Suddenly the photograph begins to bleed. Blood pours from thepaper itself, pressing up and smearing against the glass-so thatit is momentarily framed blood, without a single trace of thepicture showing. The blood begins to escape out of the frame,trickling over the lip that holds the glass in place and drippingonto KIRSTY's fingers.With a cry of horror, KIRSTY drops the frame. It lands on thefloor and the glass shatters. The blood continues to flow. Infact, now that the glass does not restrain it, it fairlyfountains out, spreading across the floor.KIRSTY steps back and glances at the dresser. Blood is flowingfrom every frame, pooling on the dresser and overflowing onto thefloor.By now, the discordant elements in the birdsong are very muchpredominant and, as KIRSTY sweeps all the frames off the dresserand onto the floor with a scream of anguish, the birdsong givesway completely to a hideous, dissonant shrieking.KIRSTY throws her hands to her ears. KIRSTY Nooooo!She rushes at one of the walls and begins beating it with herfists.The walls are soft and pulpy and give slightly as her fistsstrike, like flabby flesh. KIRSTY stands back in disgust.The wall visibly bruises before her eyes, swelling and purpling.The light in the room, like the birdsong, has changed utterly. Itis not dark, but simply dull, featureless, and depressing.KIRSTY turns away in disgust and finds that the whole room hasgiven in to decay. The sofas and chairs are mildewed and rotten,the wooden furniture is ridden with woodworm and rot. A skinned ratruns across the room beside the buckled and chipped skirting board.A rotten leg gives way under a small chest and the bottom drawerspills out, freeing a whole family of quite large spiders whichrun wildly across the floor.Suddenly the room begins to fill with smoke, churned up by anever-increasing intensity of wind. The smoke obscures the screen.84 INT. BARE CHAMBER HELLThe smoke and wind subside but not entirely.KIRSTY is standing in exactly the same position in a room ofexactly the same proportions, but which is completely empty andwhich has walls of the same gray stone that the corridors do.Suddenly, rising up from behind KIRSTY, comes PINHEAD. PINHEAD Ah, Kirsty. And we thought we'd lost you.KIRSTY swings round in terror. As the mist continues to clear,she sees, advancing to join PINHEAD, the FEMALE CENOBITE and theCHATTERER. Beyond them, it is now revealed, that this chamber hasno fourth wall; it gives directly onto the corridors FEMALE CENOBITE So sweet of you to come back.KIRSTY begins to work furiously at the BOX she has brought fromMALAHIDE's house. It sent them away at the end of HELLRAISER.She obviously hopes it will work again.PINHEAD raises a hand and the box simply flies out of KIRSTY'shands and hovers in the air between them. KIRSTY stares, open-mouthed. PINHEAD How can it send us back, child? We're already here. And so are you.Suddenly PINHEAD works at the box himself - by remote control andwith dazzling skill.He turns the box rapidly through positions KIRSTY and we havenever seen before - even opening it out at one stage into alarge, two-dimensional square. Finally, it closes itself down -but in a wholly new shape; a white, multi-faceted, diamond shape- and drops back into KIRSTY's hands.He stares at KIRSTY and makes a small gesture with his brow. Itis ALMOST cute. If anything, it resembles the cocky, aren't-I-clever look STEVE gave KIRSTY after swallowing the cigarette inHELLRAISER. Then his face assumes its normal deadly blankness.KIRSTY shakes her head dumbly and begins to back into a corner,hoping that if they converge on her, she might just be able toslip around them and get back to the labyrinth. KIRSTY No! You... You can't! It wasn't me...I didn't do it! I didn't open the box! FEMALE CENOBITE Didn't open the box. And what was it last time? Didn't know what the box was. And yet we DO keep finding each other, don't we? PINHEAD Oh, Kirsty; so eager to play, so reluctant to admit it. FEMALE CENOBITE Perhaps you're teasing us. Are you teasing us?To some extent, KIRSTY's ploy is working. The CENOBITES aremoving closer together as they advance to the corner in which shestands. KIRSTY But I didn't open it! I didn't! PINHEAD Then why are you here? KIRSTY I've come for my father!KIRSTY shouts this with brave defiance. PINHEAD laughs inresponse, a very unattractive sound. PINHEAD But he's in his own Hell, child And quite unreachable.Suddenly KIRSTY makes her break shouting out as she does so. KIRSTY I don't believe you!It seems for a moment she has succeeded. She swings around theside of the CENOBITES and begins to run across the chamber.The CENOBITES do not move but suddenly, from nowhere a hook fliesacross the room, attached to a metal chain. The hook buriesitself in the wall only inches in front of KIRSTY's face, thechain pulled tight and barring her path. The wall begins tobleed.KIRSTY screams.The CENOBITES turn to face her, but make no attempt to cross theroom to her new position. PINHEAD But it's true, He is his own Hell. Just as you are in yours. KIRSTY And what about you?PINHEAD almost smiles at the naivete of the question. PINHEAD It's different for us. FEMALE CENOBITE We've always been here. PINHEAD We have no more surprises.Suddenly, as quickly as it came, the hook withdraws from the walland flies back into nothingness.PINHEAD puts out his hand in an expansive gesture. PINHEAD But, please; feel free. Explore. We'll always be here...85 INT. CORRIDORKIRSTY can't quite believe this but she has no intention ofquestioning it. She runs into the corridor and away, withPINHEAD's last words echoing after her. PINHEAD ... we have Eternity to know your flesh!Delighted CENOBITE laughter follows her back into the labyrinth.KIRSTY drops the transformed BOX into her pocket as shebegins running through the corridors again. The labyrinthseems tighter now - the corridors shorter, the turns sharper.Corner after corner we see KIRSTY turn.Accompanying this tightening, the light in the corridors becomesgradually murkier - not quite dark, more like the oppressivecolourlessness that descends before a thunderstorm breaks.Occasionally there are little hissing noises from the wallsthemselves, which are accompanied by small jets of dull and heavysmoke escaping between the bricks.Over all this, there grows in volume on the soundtrack arhythmic, labored, resonant sound - a sound somewhere betweenbreathing and machinery.Suddenly, as KIRSTY turns one more corner, a hand reaches out totouch her.KIRSTY throws herself back against the far wall of the corridor,unsure whether to fight or flee. Then her face relaxes. It isTIFFANY.86 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHIn another corridor within the labyrinth, MALAHIDE and JULIA arewalking.They too have found their way into the inner sections. They tooare in tighter, sharper corridors where the light is distressing.They too hear the machine-like breathing noise. And what isrevealed behind the portals in the corridor walls is lessambiguous in its unpleasantness; in one we see CHATTERER in someHell's equivalent of a beauty salon. He is being re-made. Thisinvolves the scar tissue being manually peeled from the upperpart of his face to reveal beneath small, vicious, human eyes.MALAHIDE's attitude has begun to change, as well. His nervousnessnow clearly outweighs his delight. He' rushes on to the nextportal.If the last room was a beauty salon, this is the orgy room. Butthe orgy is very strange. It is a very dark room, filled with afaint layer of smoke. In the background, a bound man is havinghis chest licked by a kneeling woman. She pulls her face back fora moment. Her tongue is horrifically long and studded with short,sharp blades. The man's chest is stripped of skin where she hasbeen attending him. His face is a picture of ecstasy.In the foreground, three people are buried up to their waists inthe floor. They are naked. The one in the middle is a woman, theother two, men. The one in front of her faces her, the one behindhas his back to her back. They are all very, close. The men havevarious hooks in their chests, connected by chains to the unseenwalls and their faces are impassive. The woman is unwounded andher head flicks back and forth, as if in the grip of a sexualclimax of stunning ferocity. The movements of her head keep thedetails of her features blurred until, finally, it turns to giveMALAHIDE a three-quarter profile and holds its position, itsmouth open, its eyes half-closed in pleasure. It is JULIA's face.MALAHIDE gasps and pulls back from the portal. The camera TRACKSback to reveal that JULIA is still in the corridor, just a fewyards in front of him JULIA Come. I have such sights to show you.MALAHIDE shakes his head crazily from side to side and begins toback away.JULIA looks at him and walks toward him slowly. She smiles. Shestrokes his cheek. She moves closer, gently slipping her arms aroundhim and molding her body to his. She extends her tongue and lickslightly at his lower lip. He opens his mouth and returns thekiss, pressing her body more firmly to him. The kiss becomesquite passionate.87 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHKIRSTY and TIFFANY are now walking together.KIRSTY is talking to her as calmly as her sense of urgency willallow. KIRSTY Do you see? You were RIGHT. This IS a puzzle, too. But WE'RE CAUGHT in the puzzle.KIRSTY stops walking and catches hold of TIFFANY's arm. TIFFANYstops, looks at the hand holding her arm, and then looks intoKIRSTY's eyes. KIRSTY Yeah?TIFFANY smiles directly at KIRSTY and then returns her nod. KIRSTY Yeah?TIFFANY nods again, more emphatically. KIRSTY Yeah!KIRSTY throws her arms around TIFFANY and hugs her.88 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHJULIA is leading MALAHIDE down a corridor which has intersectionsevery few yards on both of its sides.JULIA walks past these shadowed entrances without pause, withouta single sidelong glance. She is clearly confident, clearly backon her own turf.MALAHIDE, on the other hand, glances nervously into every onebefore moving on.There is also one last portal he looks into. He is gazing intoa room where the floor is a vast, seething pool of maggots.Suddenly, something breaks the surface. It would doubtless screamwere its mouth not full of maggots. It is BROWNING. His nightmarehas come true; his skin is producing the maggots in a constant,spewing flow from numerous sores that pack his face.MALAHIDE turns away and calls to JULIA. MALAHIDE Enough. God, that's enough. We HAVE to go back.JULIA smiles at him. JULIA Go back? What an earth makes you think we can go back?MALAHIDE's jaw drops. MALAHIDE I want to go back! JULIA Sorry, friend. No day trips to Hell. Here you are. Here you stay. And forward the only way to go.JULIA turns back and walks an down the corridor.MALAHIDE, with a glance back at the maggot pool, turns after thenow departing JULIA.89 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHKIRSTY and TIFFANY are walking warily along a corridor when,suddenly, the corridor wall parts with a roar. Both girls jump,and TIFFANY cries out.A new, and very narrow corridor has been revealed. The GIRLSstare down it. It culminates in a door. Despite being set in ablank gray stone wall, the door is normal. But frightening -because it is an exact replica of the front door of 55 LODOVICOSTREET, LARRY's house.Before KIRSTY can react to this, a voice issues from beyond thedoor. VOICE Kirsty!KIRSTY stops dead in her tracks. She looks at the door andmoves toward it, walking slowly down the corridor. TIFFANYfollows. KIRSTY (Very Tentatively) Daddy...? Only a low moan comes from behind the door. KIRSTY Tiffany. Wait here. If I'm not back real soon - get out. Get home.Leaving TIFFANY in the corridor, KIRSTY opens the door and stepsin.90 INT. THE BROTHERS' ROOMThe door that KIRSTY opens gives directly on to a room.Like the SITTING ROOM earlier this appears to be an ordinary roomand not a stone wall chamber.It's wall-papered walls were once white but are now yellowed andold. Overhead there is an equally ancient four bladed wooden fanthat turns sluggishly.In the middle of the floor is a small low table of vaguelyEastern design.On this table lie a hand of cards, face down, an empty and cloudytumbler, and a soiled ashtray.Over by the far wall (the wall opposite to that containing thedoor) there is a mattress on the floor. A body like shape on thismattress is obscured by a heavy blanket that covers it.To the side of the mattress a latticed wooden screen stands,hiding whatever is behind it from those entering the room. If theatmosphere of the room reminds us of anything it is of the seedybazaar where FRANK first bought the LAMENT CONFIGURATION.We are looking at the door as it opens inwards and KIRSTY slowlyand nervously walks into the room.KIRSTY advances into the room. She stares at the mattress aheadof her. Above it written in blood on the wall, is the message shesaw in her vision. I AM IN HELL:HELP ME. KIRSTY daddy...A low moan comes from the far end of the room. KIRSTY assumes itissues from the figure hidden beneath the blanket and walksnearer, lifting her arm in readiness to remove the blanket. KIRSTY Daddy. It's Kirsty...There is no response. KIRSTY arrives at the mattress and pullsthe blanket back. She leaps backwards, her hand at her mouthstifling a scream.Lying on the bed is a husk like figure, vaguely female in shape.Despite its appearance of long decay, it is dressed in vaguelysexual garments of leather. Suddenly, the eyes pop open,revealing a vague remnant of life. KIRSTY Oh God.KIRSTY hurriedly, throws the blanket back over it.A voice issues into the room. It sounds like LARRY but, as weshall see, it is not. VOICE No. Over here. Behind the screen.KIRSTY walks carefully around the screen, giving it a wide berthin case of a trick.There is a figure standing against the wall behind the screen. Itis deeply shadowed by the screen itself but is clearly male.KIRSTY gulps back a sob and her eyes fill with tears. KIRSTY Daddy... ?The figure leans slowly into the light, speaking as he doesso. FRANK That's it, baby. Come to Daddy.KIRSTY stands still. There is a second where her face registersnothing. Then she screams. KIRSTY NO!it is her UNCLE FRANK, back in his skin and dressed in whiteshirt and jeans.FRANK chuckles. KIRSTY backs away from him into the room. FRANKputs out his right hand in a placatory gesture. KIRSTY realiseshe is not moving after her. She also sees that his body iscuriously angled, the left side still in the deep shadow cast bythe screen. Is there something else there? Something she can'tquite see? FRANK's voice stops her wondering. FRANK What's the matter, Kirsty? It's only Frank. It's only Uncle Frank.KIRSTY's anger at being tricked wins over her fear and distressand she shouts at FRANK in fury. KIRSTY I should have known! I should've known he wouldn't be here! This place is only for filth like you!FRANK sneers. FRANK Oh, right. Daddy's died and gone to heaven, eh? KIRSTY Yes! FRANK Shit. Bull. ShitFRANK pauses and smiles. Then he begins to move more fully intothe room, shifting his weight as he does so and dragging what washidden into the light. KIRSTY screams again.FRANK's white shirt is cut off at the left shoulder. His arm isbare and, from the elbow down to the wrist, joined to anotherforearm. The flesh is completely fused, like that of siamesetwins. As FRANK moves into the room, the owner of the other armis revealed. It is his brother, LARRY. KIRSTY's father.LARRY, like his brother, is dressed in a white shirt (cut off atone shoulder) and jeans and, like his brother, has his skin back.His face is frozen into a permanent expression of terror and heseems incapable of any independent movement, simply being pulledalong by FRANK.KIRSTY steps back in horror. FRANK See? He's here. You should learn to believe your Uncle Frank. KIRSTY No! He SHOULDN'T be here! It SHOULD'VE been a trick! FRANK 'Fraid not, baby. He belongs here. With me. We're the same. Brothers. Equal and opposite. Pure appetite. Pure banality. Too much feeling. None at all.KIRSTY's fear of FRANK is now outweighed by her contempt for hisargument. KIRSTY You're full of shit, Frank Cotton. My Dad wasn't like that at all. He could feel. He could love. He loved ME.KIRSTY's voice breaks. KIRSTY He...he loved me. FRANK Don't waste your tears. Look at him!Her hatred for FRANK gives KIRSTY her strength back. KIRSTY He loved me, you bastard! He Loved me, he loved my mother. He even loved that bitch you betrayed him with!FRANK begins to move towards KIRSTY again, LARRY dragging behindhim. FRANK Ah, Julia. She hasn't been to see me recently. That's why it's so nice to have you here, baby. Daddy's little girl. So pretty when she's upset. Come to Daddy,FRANK is very close to her, now. KIRSTY attempts to run acrossthe room. FRANK siezes her arm and throws her back against thewall. He moves in close and presses against her. His voice ismidway between arousal and anger. FRANK Now don't be naughty, Kirsty. Or I'll have to punish you first. Perhaps you'd like that. Would you like that?KIRSTY screams and stares pleadingly, at the still frozen LARRY. KIRSTY Daddy! Daddy! I love you! Help me! FRANK I'm your Daddy now, Kirsty.FRANK leans in to kiss the terrified KIRSTY.Suddenly, a hand appears at FRANK's throat and hurls him offKIRSTY. It is LARRY, roused by his daughter's cries. LARRY Get your fucking hands off my daughter, you bastard!Suddenly, the room, previously full of slow movements andtension, is full of furious, violent action as the fused brotherskick, tear, and punch at each other in a paroxysm of killinghatred.91 INT. THE CENTRE OF HELLMALAHIDE and JULIA are at the end of a corridor. They turn intoan open space. A vast open space. It is desert-like in itsexpanse, almost vanishing into infinity at its furthest reaches.It is criss-crossed by catwalks, on one of which MALAHIDE andJULIA now stand. Beside these catwalks, the ground falls awayinto mile-deep, dark, abysses.Above the catwalks, dominating the huge space, is the master ofthe labyrinth.The master, LEVIATHAN, is a monumentally huge, white, multi-faceted diamond, spinning on its own axis, entirely unsupportedby any physical means, above its territory.Apart from its very immensity, the most unsettling thing aboutLEVIATHAN are the beams of black light that shine out from thecorners of all its many facets. Due to the fast spinning, thesebeams shoot and swoop around the chamber, like a negative laserdisplay of dazzling complexity.The sound that has been in the corridors is now magnified. It isthe sound of LEVIATHAN's breath.MALAHIDE has walked the last few yards like a man in shock. Nowa black beam strikes his face and images of horror flash beforehis eyes at almost subliminal speed. His face suddenly crumblesinto an expression of incredulous terror, he makes a noisehalfway between screaming and retching, and drops to his knees bythe edge of the catwalk.Unfortunately, this allows him to look down into LEVIATHAN's pit.Looking down with him, we are given a sudden and vertiginouslysickening realization of Hell's immensities. There is a drop ofmiles visible down the pit and, all the way down, as far as theeye can see, there are other catwalks cutting across the pit atvarious angles.MALAHIDE looks back up, his scream renewed by his sight of thepit. Two or three of the beams of black light flit across hisface, filling his eyes with more subliminal images of horror as theypass; a child, a knife, and a dead animal; a naked woman whoseprivate parts are made of sharp, oily, metal; perfect handsending in crumbling, leprous fingers.Suddenly, LEVIATHAN stops spinning. Effortlessly. Instantly. Twomore beams are projected at MALAHIDE but, as they come within afew yards of him, they become writhing pink limbs that fly out,sieze MALAHIDE and lift him into the air. He screams out. MALAHIDE No! No! Julia! Help me!MALAHIDE is held in the air as JULIA replies. JULIA But you WANTED this. You wanted to SEE. You wanted to KNOW. And here it is. The heart of Hell. Leviathan.As she says this two of the thing's facets part to reveal a rawand gaping cavity lined with angry, sore-looking purple fleshdirectly behind the dangling MALAHIDE.The purple and pink walls of this flesh gash peel apart and openin various places to reveal blades, hooks and needles at the endof various vestigial limbs.The limbs holding MALAHIDE draw him back inexorably into thiscavity.He has one last moment to meet JULIA's eyes. JULIA Why do you think I was allowed to go back? For YOU? No, it wanted souls. And I brought you. And you wanted to KNOW. Now you're both happy.MALAHIDE is now held within the walls of the gash. He opens hismouth for one final scream but one of the tiny needle-toppedlimbs flies at his mouth and sews his lips together with heavyblue wire before he can utter it.His eyes widen in both agony and horror.JULIA smiles. JULIA Goodbye, Doctor. It's been real.The gash heals itself, closing MALAHIDE within.Despite the gash having closed over MALAHIDE, the leathery fleshthat covers that area is a mass of movement, ripples and bumps.Small rips and gashes appear and disappear on its surface, allowingus occasional and partial glimpses of MALAHIDE and what ishappening to him.At one stage MALAHIDE's hand and forearm appear. A long deep,running cut has been made down the arm and the flesh peeled andfolded back, revealing the meat and the muscle beneath. As wewatch, two of the tiny operating limbs sew the flaps of flesh,still folded back, to the rest of the arm, leaving the wound openand un-healable.Another gash opens and MALAHIDE's face is visible. Here too theneedles are at work, diving into and out of his flesh in acomplicated sewing pattern that is finally pulled togetherbeneath one ear, leaving MALAHIDE's features permanently pulledout of shape and decorated with running stitches of metal wire.Again, MALAHIDE's torso appears, naked. Two large triangularblades make deep parallel slashes down his chest. Two differentlimbs appear but these have sucker-like tips rather than metallicones. They fasten onto the new cuts, as if battening. Insteadthey are injecting - as becomes apparent when MALAHIDE's skinturns blue.The blueness, the conscious disfigurement, and the almostdecorative open wounds should serve to convey that what ishappening to MALAHIDE is not simply torture; he is beingtransformed into a CENOBITE.JULIA watches with avid interest.92 INT. BROTHERS' ROOMLARRY and FRANK are fighting furiously, tumbling around theroom. LARRY is fuelled by righteous anger and revenge but FRANKhas had more experience of dirty fighting.At one stage their free hands each have hold of the other man bythe throat and are rolling along one of the walls, each trying toestablish the dominant grip.They smash violently against one of the walls in the room. Itgives and they fall through into the next room.93 INT. KNIFE ROOMThis is a small square room. With the exception of the doorwayto the BROTHERS ROOM, every inch of the walls is coveredwith sharp and deadly-looking double-bladed knives -ie One bladeis buried in the wall up to a central hilt/handle and the otherblade juts out menacingly into the room.The two brothers tumble into the room. Their grips loosened bytheir fall through the wall, they land on the floor andrise to their feet, staring at each other but taking inthe vicious nature of the room as well. FRANK How convenient.KIRSTY comes through and gasps as she sees the walls. LARRY Stay there, baby. Don't come in. FRANK Yes. Stay there. I'll be with you in a minute.LARRY and FRANK trade blows.FRANK lands a powerful blow to LARRY's jaw. It straightens LARRYup and FRANK slams the flat of his hand against his brother's chest.LARRY flies backwards. He flings out his arm to balancehimself but he is nearer to the wall than he thinks and theimpetus of his fall drives his arm onto the knives.LARRY cries out. FRANK grins and prepares to force his woundedbrother completely onto the knives.Suddenly KIRSTY flies across the room at FRANK and beats at hisback with her fists.FRANK snarls and, without turning around completely, flings heraway from him. KIRSTY goes flying but lands just safely short ofthe deadly walls.LARRY, in the pause KIRSTY gave him and galvanized by her example,has found more strength. He pulls his arm painfully forward, clearof the knives, and throws himself to the side, forcing FRANK ontothe knives. With a vicious push, LARRY impales his brothercompletely.FRANK howls, loud and long.Without pausing, LARRY pulls a knife free from the wall and, withone vicious slice, separates himself from his brother.LARRY rushes to KIRSTY and helps her to her feet. They embrace.There is a cry of horror off-camera. We pull out. TIFFANY hasfollowed her friend. She stares in shock at LARRY's wounded armand at the impaled FRANK.94 INT. THE CENTRE OF HELLJULIA is being given more glimpses of the transforming MALAHIDE.The major surgery seems to be complete. There are no spinningblades of needles in sight as the gashes open. MALAHIDE's head iscompletely bald and his face, like the rest of his skin is blue.The only new sophistications are that his upper and lower eyelidshave been stretched wide and stapled to his face and forehead,and that a new mouth has been sliced into what was his cheekbefore his features were pulled permanently to one side.Over the sound of LEVIATHAN's breath and the CENOBITEmachinery still at work on MALAHIDE, FRANK's howl is heard.JULIA's head turns to the direction of this new sound. JULIA Frank...She turns away without a backward glance and moves back into thecorridors.95 INT. THE KNIFE ROOMFRANK is still impaled on the knives, but his anguished howl hasBecome small whimpers of complaint (with, given his history withthe CENOBITES, perhaps the tiniest note of pleasure in there,too)KIRSTY, LARRY and TIFFANY are now gathered together to one sideof the room near the door that leads to the corridor. They shouldleave, but a kind of sick fascination keeps them watching FRANK.FRANK realises only leverage will pull him free of the knives andlifts his forearms up as much as they are free to.He turns his palms to face the knives and, with a growl of self-encouragement, drives them deeply onto the knives so that he canbegin to push the rest of his impaled body backwards.It takes several seconds and much pain for him to succeed, butsucceed he does. He flops backwards into the room.Several of the knives have stayed in him, rather than the wall -his chest is decorated, or armed, with many blades.Just as FRANK begins to stand, and just as LARRY and the girlssnap out of it and are about to leave, the door from the CONVEYORBELT ROOM opens and JULIA walks into the room.KIRSTY and LARRY gasp. FRANK gives a slow smile. JULIA Well, well. All my family together again. How very sweet. FRANK (delighted/flattered) Julia. JULIA (Flatly) Frank. FRANK I knew you'd come. JULIA You knew? FRANK Yes. You're a girl who remembers her promises. JULIA Oh, I do. I do.FRANK grins, his grin taking in LARRY, KIRSTY and TIFFANY as wellas JULIA. He extends an arm to JULIA. FRANK And I know how much I mean to you. Come here.JULIA does not move. FRANK Come here. Kiss me. And then...He glances meaningfully at the others, perhaps stroking a bladeof one of the knives in his chest. FRANK ... we'll have a real family re-union.Suddenly, surprisingly, LARRY laughs. He is genuinely amused. LARRY Jesus Christ, FRANK. I don't believe you. You don't know her at all do you? You still think you're in charge.JULIA still has not moved. FRANK Of course I am. She BELONGS to me.JULIA begins to cross the room to him. KIRSTY For God's sake! He KILLED you!JULIA doesn't pause. FRANK grins. FRANK She's forgiven me that. Haven't you?JULIA is now next to him. JULIA Do you really need to ask?FRANK laughs. FRANK Show them. JULIA glances at the knives. FRANK shrugs. FRANK Just a small inconvenience, babe.JULIA shifts position so she is standing behind him. She wrapsher arms around him, one stroking his belly, the other across hisshoulders. FRANK leans his head back and twists it slightly.They kiss.JULIA removes her arm from his stomach and slips it behind him.Nothing happens for a second and then, suddenly, FRANK's wholebody spasms. We almost think it may be with pleasure until hebreaks from the kiss and we see the confused expression on hisface - and the blood bubbling at his mouth.There is a ripping, bursting sound and JULIA's hand emerges fromhis chest, covered in his blood. Clutched in her hand is hisruptured, still pumping heart. LARRY Jesus! Out. Out!He shepherds the girls quickly through the door to the corridor.FRANK's body begins to twitch. JULIA holds it tightly.96 INT CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHThey reach the end of the corridor. It terminates in a T-junction.TIFFANY automatically heads in one direction. KIRSTY makes tofollow, but LARRY hesitates. LARRY Wait a minute. Why are we following her? Who is this? KIRSTY This is TiffanyKIRSTY shrugs. KIRSTY ... She's good at puzzles. LARRY Fine.They take the turn TIFFANY has indicated.97 INT THE KNIFE ROOMJULIA still holds FRANK tight.Slowly, she raises the hand which holds his heart until it is infront of his face. FRANK's eyes are glassing over but he canstill see. JULIA Nothing personal, babe.Without ceremony, she bursts the heart with one quick squeeze.100 INT THE CENTRE OF HELLLARRY, KIRSTY and TIFFANY come running toward the camera.Initially oblivious to the fact that the corridor they wererunning along has widened and the walls retreated. Suddenly,they come to a stunned halt together, staring ahead of them withawestruck faces. KIRSTY Oh. My. God.The camera moves around them to take in what they see. They areof course in the central chamber of LEVIATHAN.LEVIATHAN is spinning again, the black beams flying around thechamber.TIFFANY screams. KIRSTY grabs her. KIRSTY Tiffany, listen. You've solved it. But we've got to solve it the OTHER way. See? See? We've got to get out.TIFFANY is frozen. LARRY Come on!LEVIATHAN spins, the beams fly. KIRSTY Please! Tiffany, Please! Get us out! Take us home, please!TIFFANY nods. They are just about to leave when LEVIATHAN stopsspinning.A large beam flies down , carrying an object which lands on thecatwalk before the HUMANS, who all take a step or two backwards.The beam withdraws.The object at first resembles a large and bloody plastic bag, butthen internal movement begins to rip at this covering. Handsappear out of the rips and complete the removal. We realise thatthe bag-like thing was a kind of caul, a membranous after-birththat some creatures produce their young in.The thing inside completes its escape and stands clear of theshredded caul. Like a new-born child, it is stained and soiledwith amiotic fluids and blood. But it is not a new born child.It is a NEW CENOBITE. And it used to be MALAHIDE. Thetransformation we caught glimpses of is now complete. Its skinis entirely blue, its head entirely bald. The decorative woundsand tortures we saw being applied are all present; its flesh ispeeled back in various places, its features are threaded anddistorted by, wire, its eyelids are stapled open.For a second it stands and regards the HUMANS before it.TIFFANY gasps in recognition.KIRSTY too knows what it was. KIRSTY Malahide ...For some reason, KIRSTY draws from her pocket the photo she tookfrom the OBSESSION ROOM. She stares at it. KIRSTY Jesus Christ! Of course ...The MALAHIDE CENOBITE stretches its arms and flexes its fingers. MALAHIDE And to think I hesitated ...It looks at the HUMANS again, its gaze finally settling on thestill shocked TIFFANY. MALAHIDE Tiffany. Come. I have a whole new world of puzzles for you to enjoy ...It reaches out its hand to her. MALAHIDE A whole new world of pleasures for you to endure.TIFFANY, confused and used to obeying her doctor's voice,tentatively stretches out her arm to meet the MALAHIDECENOBITE's.LARRY suddenly walks between TIFFANY and MALAHIDE. Theexpression on his face is strange; it is not fear, nor defiance.It is simpler than that. He is really, really pissed off. LARRY No. I've had enough of this shit. Who the hell are you? KIRSTY It's ...LARRY waves a hand at her, but keeps his eyes onMALAHIDE. LARRY Never mind. Never mind.He points a finger at MALAHIDE's face, which is attempting aversion of PINHEAD's imposing glacial stars, but frankly, isn'tquite making it. LARRY Fuck you and the horse you rode in on.Suddenly, he forms a fist with his unwounded arm and smashes itstraight into MALAHIDE's face. MALAHIDE is completely decked.LARRY grabs TIFFANY by the shoulders and speaksurgently to her. LARRY O.K. You've done it before. You can do it again. GET US OUT OF HERE!The three of them run back up the catwalk.LEVIATHAN spins wildly and a myriad of black beams flow from it.As they shine into the catwalk they become limbs like those thatcaptured MALAHIDE, but all with different tips; some are organic,vicious mouths, some are hooks or blades, some are faces, someare (as if LEVIATHAN Is too angry to be thinking straight)beautiful flowers.The limbs fly up the catwalk, but the HUMANS have gained toogreat a start. The limbs retract rapidly into the black lights.MALAHIDE staggers to his feet, just as LEVIATHAN re-directs itsenergy into forming and projecting one much fatter limb. It isdirty pink and segmented, like a vast earthworm. The end peelsback as it flies toward MALAHIDE, revealing a cruel, metallic,and rapidly-spinning surgical saw.Just as MALAHIDE stands up straight, the limb smashes into theback of his skull. There is a distressing WHIRRING noise asthe limb seals itself fleshily to MALAHIDE's skull and the formersurgeon twitches and dances in horrible involuntary movements asLEVIATHAN takes over what little mind remains.101 INT CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHKIRSTY, TIFFANY and LARRY are running, TIFFANY making thedecisions as to direction.Down one corridor, blades and knives jut out from the oppositewalls at random intervals and they have to weave at high speedbetween them. They negotiate the corridor successfully but, justas KIRSTY, bringing up the rear, emerges from it, she stumblesand half-falls. The re-structured BOX falls from her pocket androlls back a few feet up the corridor.TIFFANY, who is nearest to her, helps her to her feet and, as shedoes so, catches sight of the BOX (or white diamond, as it isnow). She makes as it to go and get it. KIRSTY holds her arm. KIRSTY No. Come on. We have to get out of here.TIFFANY moves away with KIRSTY, but not without a backward glanceand a puzzled expression.They all make another turning. Suddenly, when they are abouthalfway down this next corridor, a new gap opens up behind themin the wall and a terrible sucking noise is heard. Corridordebris disappears into the vacuum.Luckily, LARRY has reached the end of the corridor and grasps thecorner with one hand, seizing KIRSTY's hand with the other.KIRSTY grabs TIFFANY and the three of them flatten themselvesagainst the wall, fighting against the suction. The force istremendous and LARRY's finger are slowly losing hold.102 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHCLOSE UP on a hand picking up the re-structured BOX from thecorridor floor they have just left.103 INT. CORRIDORS/LABYRINTHThe sucking force is growing stronger by the second. Not only isLARRY's right hand losing its grip on the edge of the wall, buthis left arm - stretched tight as it clings to KIRSTY and, viaher, TIFFANY - is bleeding profusely again.Suddenly, JULIA appears at the top of the corridor next to LARRY.In her hand is the white diamond BOX that KIRSTY had let drop.She stays just out of range of the sucking wind. She stares atLARRY's weakening fingers and smiles. JULIA Oh, poor Larry. You never could hold on to anything for very long, could you?Suddenly, audaciously, his face set in a scowl of anger, LARRYlets go of the wall. Before she realises what is happening, hehas grabbed JULIA's wrist and pulled her off her feet into thecorridor. He lets go almost immediately and with a superhumaneffort grabs at the corner again before the wind can claim himand the girls.JULIA is not so lucky; without support or foothold, she is seizedby the wind and hurtles to the gap in the wall.She manages to brake herself by flinging her arms out to eitherside of her. For a moment she is hold there and then the pressurebegins to draw her in.In her left hand she still holds the BOX, but her right hand isonly a few inches from TIFFANY's left.TIFFANY reaches her hand to her, not knowing JULIA as the othersdo. Their fingers just manage to interlock when JULIA's faceregisters a disbelieving shock.There is a terrible ripping sound. JULIA's new skin, so recentlygained, is giving up its hold and has ripped right up the spine.JULIA is drawn from it. JULIA NOOOOOOOOOO!With a final, slurping sound, the skinned woman slips from theskin and disappears down the new corridor.The momentary break in tension allows LARRY to make one lasteffort. He rounds the corner and pulls the girls after him.TIFFANY, finally, realising what has happened, screams in terrorand disgust, especially when she looks at what she has brought roundthe corner in her hand. She drops JULIA's skin to the floor asthe three of them scramble to their feet and begin to run again.Still clutched in the skin's hollow fingers is the white diamond BOX.As they turn another corner, they see, very far in the distance,a glimmer of light. TIFFANY points excitedly. KIRSTY My God, it's her room! LARRY Let's go!He starts urging the girls down the corridor - a long and verynarrow one - but KIRSTY shows some resistance. KIRSTY No. No, there's something wrong...Before they can discuss it, a new rushing sound is heard. Theylook back.Hurtling towards them is the ENGINEER from HELLRAISER.TIFFANY screams. LARRY Jesus. O.K. No more arguments. Just RUN!They begin one last panic-fuelled run down the narrow corridor,the ENGINEER at their heels.The sequence is equivalent to KIRSTY's pursuit by the ENGINEER inHELLRAISER, the twist here being that as they approach the entranceinto TIFFANY's room the walls of the corridor, already thin, beginto close together.LARRY is bringing up the rear (the corridor is now so narrow onlysingle file is possible) and he can almost feel the ENGINEER'Sbreath on his neck. LARRY Go. Go. Go. Go. Go!!Finally, almost impossibly, they reach the gap in the wall.TIFFANY tumbles through, then KIRSTY, and finally LARRY. Lessthan a micro-second after LARRY has made it, the walls sealthemselves.104 INT. TIFFANY'S ROOM (2nd VERSION) DAYAs we see clearly the room they have come into, we perhaps sharethe feeling that KIRSTY expressed in the corridor; Something IsWrong.The tiles that make up the floor are patterned as before but theindividual tiles are larger. The room itself seems more spacious,the ceiling higher.There is a bowl of flowers by the window. The flowers were infull bloom before their trip to Hell but now they seem long dead.The audience have to notice most of this for themselves becauseLARRY, KIRSTY, and TIFFANY are too relieved by, and tired from,their escape to take this in immediately. LARRY seats himself inthe chair, KIRSTY perches on the end of TIFFANY's bed. TIFFANYhowever walks straight across to her window. She is the first tonotice anything. She stares at the flowers. KIRSTY Tiffany ... ?KIRSTY rises from the bed and joins TIFFANY by the window. KIRSTY But these were ... Daddy?LARRY rises to his feet. Just as he stands, a fleeting expressionof bewilderment crosses his face. He strokes at his right armwith an unconscious gesture as he crosses the room.KIRSTY doesn't look at her father right away. KIRSTY These flowers. I saw them just...She looks at her father. A sea of sweat has broken out on hisbrow and face as he stares intensely at the flowers. KIRSTY'svoice slows, begins to trail off. KIRSTY ...the day ...before... yesterday Daddy? Daddy!LARRY's eyes close. His entire face screws up as if anexcruciating pain just hit him. He clamps his arm across hischest, the hands clutching his shoulders. He opens his eyes andlooks at KIRSTY for a second, his expression one of surprise.Then his eyes roll up into the sockets and he collapses to thefloor.TIFFANY has hardly had time to turn from the bowl of flowersbefore KIRSTY is kneeling by her father. KIRSTY Daddy!LARRY is unconscious. TIFFANY gasps. KIRSTY looks up at her. KIRSTY Get help.TIFFANY's eyes widen. She rushes to the door and disappears intothe corridor. Within two seconds we hear an emergency alarm gooff and TIFFANY re-enters the room. KIRSTY Pass me a pillow.TIFFANY does so and KIRSTY places it under the head of LARRY,whose lips are now blue and who is breathing very shallowly.KIRSTY looks up at TIFFANY, despair in her eyes. KIRSTY What do you do? I just don't know what to do.TIFFANY shakes her head helplessly.Suddenly, the door to the room flies open and two INTERNS - maybeStan and Ollie from the carnival sequence - come in, complete withstretcher and gurney. They assess the situation with a glance andit is serious enough to make one of them break their professionalsilence. INTERN Coronary arrest. Let's be quick.They are good at their job - within seconds LARRY is secured onthe gurney and they head for the door, KIRSTY and TIFFANY behindthem. The following exchanges are spoken on the move. KIRSTY Is he going to be 0.K.? INTERN We just can't say. O.R.'s on standby. They'll do what they can. KIRSTY But it's bad?The INTERNS exchange a glance and decide honesty is best. INTERN (gently but flatly) Yeah. It's bad.105 INT. ELEVATOR DAYThe elevator is uncomfortably full, KIRSTY and TIFFANY squashedup against the back while the INTERNS hold the gurney in thecentre.The elevator is descending. The ride seems to take longer than itshould, even though they are going to basement level;like thelook of TIFFANY's room, it's ALMOST normal but just differentenough to make us slightly uneasy in an un-focused way.Eventually, though, it does come to a stop. TIFFANY squeezesKIRSTY's shoulder sympathetically (NOTE. RE: TIFFANY's character- it should be clear to the audience by this stage that, thoughshe is still mute, TIFFANY is now a responsive, more roundedcharacter)The INTERNS wheel the gurney out of the elevator and the girlsfollow.106 INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR DAYThe basement corridor is long, cavernous, and not very pleasant.It has a grimier, more uncared-for look than the upper floors andthe high ceiling is covered with an intricate system of nakedpipes and conduits.The INTERNS wheel LARRY down this corridor, going so fast thatKIRSTY and TIFFANY are continually breaking into a trot to keepup with them.At the far and of the corridor are a set of double doors. Thenearer they all get to these doors, the tackier the corridorseems to become. The walls now have pipes running over them, aswell as the ceiling, and several of these pipes are drippingwater into small pools on the corridor floor. The sound of thesedrips is artificially loud on the soundtrack.Finally, the doors are reached and the INTERNS, LARRY, KIRSTY andTIFFANY disappear through them.107 INT. PRE-OP ROOM DAYThis is a small ante-room to the operating room which is beyond afurther set of double doors. Without ceremony the two INTERNSpass straight across this room to those doors and wheel thegurney through, one of them throwing back a parting remark toKIRSTY. INTERN Wait out here. A doctor will talk to you when we know more.The double doors part and close, giving just a glimpse of theoperating room beyond, all lights, monitors and whirring machinery,and the several gowned and masked experts attending to LARRY.As the doors close, KIRSTY turns to TIFFANY, expecting a longwait before anyone comes to speak to them. Surprisingly, though,the doors open again almost immediately and two figures stepthrough. They, too, are masked and gowned in surgical green andvery little of them is visible. KIRSTY Is he going to be all right? 1st GOWNED FIGURE (matter of factly) No. He's not going to be all right.KIRSTY staggers visibly, shocked by this bluntness. KIRSTY Wh... 1st GOWNED FIGURE No. He's going to die. He's got a ruptured aorta. He's going to die in agony.As he makes this speech, the mask of his colleague stains rapidlywith blood, as if it is literally pouring from its mouth.Simultaneously, his own mask is slowly pierced by a score of nailsbursting through from beneath.TIFFANY screams.The 1st GOWNED FIGURE pulls the mask and cap away from its face -It is PINHEAD. His colleague does the same. It is the FEMALECENOBITE. KIRSTY Oh, Fuck.She's had too much experience with these two to hesitate. Shegrabs TIFFANY's arm and bursts through the double doors to thecorridor.108 INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR DAYWe are now looking along the corridor in the other direction -back towards the elevator.KIRSTY and TIFFANY come into shot, running rapidly along thecorridor.As they make their way, a rumbling, flatulent sound is heard fromthe overhead pipes and they all begin to drip blood not water.We hear the sound of the doors flying open behind them.KIRSTY and TIFFANY reach the elevator. KIRSTY presses franticallyon the call button, while TIFFANY looks behind them withfrightened eyes. KIRSTY C'mon. C'MON!The sound of steadily-pacing, purposeful feet is heard coming upthe corridor, getting louder, coming closer.KIRSTY begins hammering on the closed elevator doors. TIFFANYstifles a cry with her hand. KIRSTY COME ON!!Suddenly, the doors fly open. KIRSTY and TIFFANY tumble into theelevator.109 INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR DAY (GIRLS' P.O.V.)We see the door-frame of the elevator and the floor buttonsbeside it and, looking down the corridor through the openelevator doors, PINHEAD and the FEMALE CENOBITE marching towardsus.We also see KIRSTY'S finger jabbing frantically at the floorbuttons. The doors are not closing. The CENOBITES are gettingvery close.Finally, just as PINHEAD breaks from his determined but medium-paced stride and speeds up eagerly for the last two or threeyards, extending his arm as he does so, the door slams shutacross our vision and we hear the elevator machinery start up.110 INT. ELEVATOR DAYKIRSTY leans against the back wall of the elevator, breathingheavily. TIFFANY stands very still in the middle, a frozenexpression of fear on her face. KIRSTY Faster, you bastard, faster!She slams her fist against the elevator wall. The elevatorstops. Its lights flicker. KIRSTY Oh, Jesus. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't mean it.The elevator starts again. KIRSTY It's 0.K. They can't beat an elevator. Not upstairs. It'll be O.K.The lift stops, but this time it's where they want it. KIRSTY'sfinger hesitates over the DOOR OPEN button. KIRSTY It'll be O.K.She presses the button.111 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR DAY (GIRLS P.O.V.)We are looking at the closed elevator door. When it opens wewill be looking down the corridor on the main hospital floor -the floor with the girls' rooms on.The door flies open. CHATTERER II lunges in at them.KIRSTY screams, but because of the eagerness of his lunge theyare able to get around him as his impetus carries him to the backof the elevator.112 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR DAYThe door begins to close as the girls straighten up in thecorridor and as CHATTERER II turns around to come back out atthem.He tries to put his hand out to stop the door closing, butsucceeds only in trapping his fingers in the door.KIRSTY, as soon as the doors began to close, had hit the DOWNbutton. Now, she squeals with horror as she realises what isabout to happen.The elevator begins to descend - we can tell this becauseCHATTERER II's fingers move down to the floor and are thensliced off.The GIRLS run off down the corridor. KIRSTY This way. Short cut.They turn into a set of double doors leading to a large ward.113 INT. LARGE WARD DAYKIRSTY and TIFFANY enter the ward at a run and then slow down toa confused and horrified walk.Every bed in the ward is occupied, some by men, some by women,and every patient has in their hands, and is busily working on, aLAMENT CONFIGURATION.Despite this collective work-in, the BOXES obviously still havethe vicious characteristics they have previously demonstratedwhen used individually - as is witnessed by the ten or so patientswho are struggling on with their work despite having one or twohooks and chains connecting their flesh to their BOX.KIRSTY and TIFFANY move slowly down the room, a look ofincredulity on both their faces. KIRSTY Oh, Christ. This isn't just personal anymore.TIFFANY nods slowly, her eyes flicking back and forth across theward.Suddenly, the wheelchair patient from the earlier scene in thisward, who has been between two of the beds on one side ofthe ward, cuts across the GIRLS' path. He too has a BOX on hislap. As he passes in front of them, he looks at them, giggles inan unmistakably insane fashion, and gives them a conspiratorialwink. Then he simply proceeds to the other side of the ward.A second or so after this, as the GIRLS edge down the middle ofthe room, they hear a rushing sound behind the double doors theyare heading towards.Suddenly, the doors slam open and revealed in the doorway isMALAHIDE.But he is not standing there. He is hovering about two feet offthe floor. The umbilical limb that connects him to LEVIATHAN isstill at the back of his skull. His face is contorted in a grinof manic glee as he floats three or four feet into the ward. MALAHIDE The Doctor is in!He laughs, and the sound is far from human. KIRSTY and TIFFANYstare at him. TIFFANY Oh, shit.KIRSTY looks sharply at TIFFANY for a second, as if she is aboutto comment on her re-found voice, but instead simply nods. Shetakes her friend's hand and the GIRLS begin to walk very slowlybackwards to the far end of the ward.MALAHIDE is too enraptured of his new power to pay attention tospecific victims and so makes no move to stop the GIRLS' slowretreat.Suddenly his palms erupt into a writhing mass of tentacle-likelimbs as his head tips back to emit a wide band of LEVIATHAN'sblack light at the ceiling, accompanied by, renewed inhumanlaughter.Taking this as their cue, the GIRLS turn and bolt for the doorsat the far and of the ward and exit through them.The limbs extrude from MALAHIDE's palms only twelve inches or soand are all quite thin, but they all have independent movementand they all have various surgical-like, gleaming tips. MALAHIDEfloats over to the nearest bed. He looks at the patient and thenlooks at the bladed tips of his new limbs and, as if addressingthem, speaks. MALAHIDE I recommend amputation.There is another burst of laughter as the limbs fly at thepatient, writhing, twitching, slashing, and slicing.114 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR DAYThe GIRLS run wildly along the corridor, not knowing MALAHIDE isworking his way through his former patients. They come to anotherdoor and pause. They look back down the corridor to ensure theyare not visible as they hide and KIRSTY pushes the door open withthe flat of her hand behind her. Carefully, still looking downthe corridor, they back into the room and let the door close.115 INT. HOSPITAL/TORTURE ROOM DAYCLOSE UP on the GIRLS' faces as the door closes in front of them.KIRSTY lets out a breath. Then they hear the rattling sound behindthem. They swing round and the camera pulls out to take in the room.It is like the TORTURE ROOM in HELLRAISER. The walls are black,the floor slimy, and the room filled with chains, hooks, andtorture-pillars. And, in the room and staring at the GIRLS, arethe four CENOBITES.PINHEAD glances theatrically around the room, as if checkingsomething. PINHEAD Oh. No Boxes. Such a shame. FEMALE CENOBITE No more delays, Kirsty. No more teasing. Time to play. PINHEAD Time to play.KIRSTY looks at his unforgiving face and then her eyes suddenlywiden as she thinks Of something. KIRSTY Wait! PINHEAD No more deals, Kirsty. It's your flesh we want to experience, not your skill at bargaining. KIRSTY No deals! Just information. Information. Free of charge. No strings. Just information. PINHEAD Go on. But trick us again, child, and your suffering will be legendary even in Hell.Carefully, making no fast movements, KIRSTY reaches into herpocket where she placed the photograph from MALAHIDE's OBSESSIONROOM. She brings out the picture that she realized earlier wasof PINHEAD and hands it to him.He takes hold of it and looks, his face registering nothing. PINHEAD What is this? Someone else you think escaped us, like Frank? KIRSTY No, No, this one didn't escape. You told me you'd always been in Hell. You were wrong. Look at it. LOOK. IT'S YOU. PINHEAD Nonsense, I... KIRSTY It's you! You HAVEN'T always been as you are. You were HUMAN. Remember. Remember all your confusions. Think!The FEMALE CENOBITE strides across the room. FEMALE CENOBITE Enough!She raises her hand towards KIRSTY. PINHEAD's arm flies out andstops her. PINHEAD Wait!He is staring at the photograph, that great immobile brow finallypuckering, as if something is stirring. PINHEAD I...remember. KIRSTY You were ALL human!The other three CENOBITES stop moving and stare at KIRSTY. Anyadvances they were making on KIRSTY or TIFFANY stop as the samedim, distant, recollection begins to stir within them.Suddenly, the door bursts open. MALAHIDE is there, stillfloating, his voice still a mixture of hideous threat andinsane joy. MALAHIDE Tiffany. Come.He turns his palms downwards, mirroring his gesture in the hallof mirrors.TIFFANY lets out a moan of terror and shakes her head.One of the snake-like limbs from MALAHIDE's palms flies towardsTIFFANY's face. Before anybody can react, its scalpel tip hassliced an inch or so off several strands of her hair. MALAHIDE Tiffany. Come.KIRSTY throws her arms around the cowering TIFFANY and snarls ather tormentor. KIRSTY Leave her alone, you asshole!MALAHIDE makes no reply, but suddenly several more limbs flytowards the GIRLS and begin to weave in front of KIRSTY's facelike snakes awaiting their moment.At this stage, the camera CUTS TO the watching PINHEAD. He letsthe photograph of his past life flutter to the floor.MALAHIDE looks up at the tiny noise this makes and his eyes meetPINHEAD'S. He turns more fully to face PINHEAD and the otherCENOBITES who are now standing with their leader, and a strangesmile crosses his face MALAHIDE Oh,good. A fight.Suddenly, the air is full of flying chains. MALAHIDE is hookedeverywhere. It is like a high-speed version of FRANK's final re-capture in HELLRAISER. The chains start tugging almost instantly.Is MALAHIDE about to be ripped apart?With contemptuous, dismissive speed, the limbs that ooze fromMALAHIDE's palms have sliced the chains to pieces and, almostbefore we have time to realise that, three of them havelengthened, thickened, and hardened and have skewered the FEMALECENOBITE, CHATTERER II, and BUTTERBALL to the walls.The three limbs detatch themselves from MALAHIDE. The threeCENOBITES are all well above the floor, pinned and twitching likethe rats in FRANK's attic.As they die, they suddenly revert; there are three human corpseson the walls of the room. A woman, a fat man, and a little boy.MALAHIDE smiles. Be looks at PINHEAD again and advances. Suddenlya heavy torture pillar smashes into him, knocking him slightlyoff-balance.PINHEAD is backing across the room, weaving pillars in front ofhim as he moves. MALAHIDE moves forward, knocking them out of theway. As each pillar is knocked aside, PINHEAD's face is more andmore human. Finally, when the face we see is nearly that of theENGLISH OFFICER from the opening, he turns his head slightly awayfrom the advancing MALAHIDE and finds KIRSTY's eyes. A lookpasses between them. Understanding? Gratitude? Friendship?Whatever emotion lies beneath it, it is clearly a cue andKIRSTY and TIFFANY make a break for it, bursting through thedoor. Simultaneously to this, MALAHIDE and PINHEAD find eachother's eyes a final time. For a second, everything is still thena single bladed limb flies across the space between them andneatly and calmly slices PINHEAD's throat open. The thin red linebecomes a torrent of blood and the former lord of Hell falls deadat the feet of his successor. 116 INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR DAYKIRSTY and TIFFANY burst out into the corridor and almost fallover the PATIENT IN THE WHEELCHAIR. PATIENT So what, girls? It's O.K. for an ego-trip but it doesn't got the job done.Shaking their heads at the insanity, they run up the corridor.TIFFANY looks slightly distracted and when she speaks it is halfto herself. TIFFANY I have to go back. Or it'll never stop. KIRSTY (Confused) What are you talking... TIFFANY (to herself) I've got to finish it. KIRSTY Finish what?Even as KIRSTY says this, TIFFANY has moved past her and isresuming her run down the corridor. KIRSTY Tiffany! Wait!KIRSTY starts after her friend.They turn back into the main section of the corridor that containstheir own rooms, TIFFANY still four or five yards in front ofKIRSTY.TIFFANY reaches her room. The door is open. She goes in. A secondlater, KIRSTY follows.117 INT. TIFFANY'S ROOM DAYKIRSTY enters the room. It is as we last saw it except thatthe walls have re-parted to give onto the corridors of Hell.Carefully and slowly, KIRSTY moves across to the entrance andlooks down it. She is rewarded with the sight of TIFFANY justdisappearing at the far end of the first corridor. With agrimace, KIRSTY follows her in.118 INT. CORRIDOR/LABYRINTHTIFFANY's skill at finding her way through puzzles means theGIRLS are soon in the murkier corridors close to the Centre.Hell seems angrier now, steam is issuing in jets from thecorridor walls, the cries of children are heard faintly on thesoundtrack, LEVIATHAN's breathing is more dominant, perhaps thelight is even pulsing in time with it.KIRSTY is still several yards behind TIFFANY. TIFFANY takes acorner and is out of sight for a second or so . KIRSTY dashesaround the corner to find TIFFANY staring with distress atsomething on the floor.It is the skin ripped off JULIA by the vacuum tunnel earlier. KIRSTY Oh, gross.TIFFANY bends down and retrieves the white diamond BOX from theempty fingers. KIRSTY What are you doing? What are WE doing?TIFFANY looks at the BOX in her hand. When she speaks, it is notto KIRSTY but to herself. TIFFANY I can't do it here. I have to go to it.119 INT. THE CENTRE OF HELLLEVIATHAN spins and fires light in the centre, his machine-likebreathing drowning all other sound. We are looking down thecatwalk as KIRSTY and TIFFANY approach its edge.The beams of black light wash across their faces, as they passedover MALAHIDE's in the earlier scene. Images of horror freezemomentarily before them and then pass on, only to be replaced byothers. TIFFANY I'm scared. KIRSTY No. Don't let it. You've come this far.The GIRLS press on. Whether LEVIATHAN is oblivious to theirpresence or simply doesn't consider them a threat, the beams stopstriking the GIRLS' faces. Nevertheless, the mood remainsominous. The audience should feel something is about to happen.They are six feet from the lip of the catwalk. TIFFANY kneelsand, holding the white diamond BOX in front of her, begins tomove her fingers over it. The music box tune begins to play asthe BOX begins to move.That 'something' that the audience was waiting to happen,suddenly does; MALAHIDE flies up from the abyss beside thecatwalk. The vastness of the limb that seals him to LEVIATHAN isnow directly apparent; instead of merging into black light, thelimb itself trails through the air over the huge distance toLEVIATHAN itself.One of the limbs from MALAHIDE's palms flies out and knocks theBOX from TIFFANY's hands. It rolls perilously close to the edgeof the catwalk.KIRSTY grabs TIFFANY and, dragging her to her feet, pulls herfurther back down the catwalk as MALAHIDE floats to a landingbetween them and the BOX. MALAHIDE Ah, girls. And how are we feeling today?The blades on the end of his limbs twitch eagerly. MALAHIDE You have your whole lives behind you now.The limbs fly forward. KIRSTY screams and both girls run upthe catwalk.About halfway back up, however, TIFFANY stops, turns around, andbegins to walk back. KIRSTY calls out. KIRSTY Tiffany! No!The camera stays with TIFFANY as she makes her way back. KIRSTY'svoice stays on the soundtrack for a time, imploring her friend toturn back and then simply stops. This should be abrupt enough tomake the audience notice but smooth enough to avoid theirattention leaving TIFFANY.MALAHIDE waits, happy to see a patient so keen on the knife.Very slowly, TIFFANY moves forward, inch by slow inch. This issomething she HAS to do; the expression on her face is notdetermination but terror. And MALAHIDE is very happy to encouragethis. MALAHIDE Surgery is open, Tiffany. What was today's agenda?His scalpels flick in the air, making small slicing motions. MALAHIDE Ah, yes. Evisceration.Still TIFFANY comes forward, closer and closer until she issurely close enough to be grabbed.Suddenly, she is grabbed. But from behind, and by a human hand.TIFFANY gasps, and turns to see who has seized her. She screams.It is JULIA.The limbs retract into MALAHIDE's palms. He smiles. JULIA Doctor. I've missed you.JULIA, having presumably just replaced her skin, is not quite asperfect as before; there are bloody lines like scars beneath herears and chin as if the skin required some adjustment beforebeing put on.JULIA moves forward, her left arm still holding TIFFANY, hersmile returning MALAHIDE'S. MALAHIDE I knew you'd come back. JULIA I'm a girl who keeps her promises.JULIA is right next to MALAHIDE now. Smoothly, she releases hergrip on TIFFANY and embraces MALAHIDE sensuously. He returns theembrace. They kiss.Unseen, TIFFANY moves to the edge of the catwalk and picks up theBOX. Her fingers move over it, finding its solution. Suddenly,LEVIATHAN's breath becomes a roar of anger and fear.MALAHIDE breaks away from his kiss, his face a mixture ofconfusion and rage. JULIA plants both hands in the middle of hischest and pushes. He falls over the lip of the catwalk but,almost before he drops from sight, he is suddenly pulledbackwards through the air, screaming, as LEVIATHAN's limbretracts. JULIA jumps back. shouting. JULIA Do it, Tiffany! Do it!TIFFANY's fingers fly over the BOX and suddenly we see what ishappening. The mountain-like LEVIATHAN is following the movementsof the small replica in TIFFANY's hands. As TIFFANY inverts thenew configuration back towards a closed BOX, LEVIATHAN too isbeing twisted and turned. Being closed.The whole centre of Hell shakes as if suffering a mildearthquake. JULIA and TIFFANY almost lose their footing, butTIFFANY continues working. She is nearly, there. LEVIATHAN ishalfway between its white diamond, majesty and a huge closed BOX.TIFFANY takes her hands from the BOX. It is done. The larger BOXoperates a few seconds behind it's control, so that we can inter-cut the final sliding and creaking into position with thefollowing human drama;As LEVIATHAN makes its final closing, the mild tremors of beforebecome larger. Hell shakes violently and this time TIFFANY doeslose her footing. She looks set to tumble into the vast abyss tothe side of the catwalk but just manages to catch hold of the edgewith one hand. The small BOX flies from her hand and hurtles downinto the miles of blackness below. TIFFANY dangles over the edge,her feet kicking wildly for a foothold that doesn't exist.Suddenly, a hand extends to her. She looks up. It is JULIA. For asecond, nothing happens. JULIA Trust me.TIFFANY lifts one hand off the edge and grabs at JULIA'sproffered wrist.JULIA begins to pull up and for a moment it seems the crisis isover. Then a terrible and familiar ripping noise is heard: Theskin of the arm that TIFFANY clings to begins to rip free at theshoulder. Gradually, like a shirt's threads unraveling, itcomes off. TIFFANY's weight pulls it clear like a very long andvery tasteless evening glove and it seems she will finally makethe long drop. At the final second, as the arm-skin comes off,the entire skin flies from the body and falls with its arm intothe abyss. TIFFANY screams. She is going to die.But suddenly the two arms that have Just lost their skin fly outagain and catch her fingers. TIFFANY is hauled over the edge andstaggers to her feet, staring into the-bloodied face of KIRSTY,who had donned JULIA's skin to help her friend.The two girls share a quick and joyous embrace and then runrapidly up the catwalk. The camera stays with LEVIATHAN.The rumbling stops. And the mountainous BOX creaks into its final,sealed position.FADE OUTFADE IN120 INT. RECOVERY ROOM DAYCLOSE UP on a bowl of beautiful flowers, sitting on a shelf inthe recovery room.The camera TRACKS out to let us see LARRY, pale, drawn, butbasically okay, in the room's single bad. He is wired up tovarious drips and monitors.Sunlight is flooding into the room from a window and the cameracontinues its TRACK up to and through this window to;121 EXT. HOSPITAL MAIN ENTRANCE DAYKIRSTY is kissing TIFFANY on the cheek. TIFFANY is dressed insmart clothes and has a small traveling bag in her hand. KIRSTY So. What're you going to do? Open up a games-shop somewhere? Sell jigsaw puzzles?TIFFANY gives a smile. TIFFANY Oh, yeah.There is a slightly awkward pause. KIRSTY Well ... G'bye. TIFFANY It's been Hell.They share a rueful knowing smile, like the smile of soldiersback from a war who say goodbye on a dockside and know they willnever meet again.TIFFANY turns and walks down the long path to the hospital gates.KIRSTY watches her for a few moments and then turns and re-entersthe institute.The camera TRACKS back to the window of the RECOVERY ROOM and wewatch through the window as KIRSTY enters the room. She bends tokiss her father's cheek. LARRY slips an arm around her shouldersand they embrace. The camera moves away again.122 INT. HALLWAY MALAHIDE's HOUSE DAYThe camera TRACKS slowly up MALAHIDE's hallway. The hallway islined with packing cases filled with items from the house. AWORKMAN is shoving something into one of the cases. As the cameramoves past him, he speaks. WORKMAN So whose was all this shit?The camera reaches the doorway of the OBSESSION ROOM as ananswering voice is heard. 2nd. WORKMAN Not our problem...The TRACK continues into -123 INT. OBSESSION ROOM DAY and we see the 2nd. WORKMAN. He is crouching over the mattresswhich is still in the middle of the floor of the otherwise emptyroom. 2nd. WORKMAN ... Gimme a hand with this.Almost faster than the eye can register it, a hand shoots outfrom the mattress and grabs his wrist.He has about half a second to issue a strangled shout and then,hideously quickly, a matter of two seconds or so, his body isdrained of all life and the dried husk collapses to the floor.The first WORKMAN appears hurriedly in the doorway and thenfreezes, an awestruck expression on his face.JULIA is rising, headfirst and upright, from the centre of themattress. The movement is smooth, magical, unsettling. It isgraceful but not slow.JULIA is fully fleshed, fully skinned, and fully dressed. She isin a replica of the dress MALAHIDE bought for her, but this oneis jet black. She looks fabulous.As the WORKMAN stands open-mouthed, her feet clear the mattress.But they don't stop there. She slows to a graceful halt about sixinches above the mattress. She stretches and flexes her armssensually. Than her head swivels and her excited, aroused eyesmeet those of the WORKMAN. JULIA I'm Julia. Love me.Suddenly, her head tips back and, accompanied by JULIA'sdelighted laughter, a wide beam of Hell's black light flies atthe ceiling from her open mouth. Instantaneously, it spillsacross the ceiling and falls,like a fountain of blood, across thescreen.COMPLETE BLACKNESS.THE CREDITS ROLL